- [Narrator] North Korea is a country well known for its secrecy, poverty, human rights violations, and of course, its enigmatic
leader, Kim Jong-un. Being such a private and unique nation, however, means there are a few quirks that simply don't exist outside
its all-encompassing walls. So let's break into the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and see what we can find. (bright music) Number 20, Korean kutz. Haircuts are a great way
of expressing yourself, but the number of potential style choices can sometimes be overwhelming. Luckily for the people of North Korea, they don't have to deal with all that, as the government issues a list of state-approved styles for them. Women can choose from a
list of about 18 styles, while men are limited to 10. Married women must keep
their hair reasonably short, while single ladies are encouraged to try out the slightly longer styles. Young men, meanwhile, mustn't grow their longer than 2 inches, but older men can get away with 3 inches. That said, with these
cuts the only options, I'm hardly foreseeing a 6-inch mohawk being likely to appear. Personally, though, I have to
say I'm partial of number 10. Number 19, traffic beauties. In the relatively-recent past, it was pretty common for
friendly local police officers to direct traffic instead of
the rage-inducing light poles we know today. Kim Jong Un seems to look
back on those days fondly, with the eyes of a mild pervert, because Pyongyang's traffic flow is directed by an entire workforce of traffic beauties. North Korean traffic conductors
are rigorously trained with robotic precision, and perform their role with
the utmost seriousness. Specifically chosen for
their physical attractiveness and family loyalty, the post of traffic beauty
is especially sought-after because of the associated
high social-standing. Indeed, the job is among
the highest-respected roles for North Korean women, making traffic beauties
effectively as desirable to North Korean men as
attractive Hollywood actresses in the West. The downside is that these
women are forced to quit at the age of 26, which is
hardly a retirement age. Hopefully, the ability to point at stuff is a transferrable skill. Number 18, caste closed. In order to dissuade
any potential defectors, the North Korean government has divided its citizens into castes, based on how loyal their
families are to the system. It all comes down to how red, representing the red flag of
communism, an individual is. The three classes are tomato, for those who are red both inside and out. Apples, for those who are
red on the outside only, and exhibit certain non-conformist traits. And grapes, those who are not red at all and do unspeakable things
like telephoning people from the Western world. Because the government
controls education and jobs, your family's status really does matter, as those seen as disloyal won't
be allowed to go to college or get desirable government jobs. Overall, the whole system
seems kinda fruity to me. Number 17, Korean calendar. While most of the world
is currently trudging through the year 2020, North Koreans are living in Juche 109. This is because the DPRK
redefined their calendar around the birthday of
the country's founder, Kim Il Sung, born in 1912. Each year is simply the number of years since April 15th, 1912. So next time you wanna make someone's birthday really
special, base a calendar on them. Number 16, necrocracy. North Korea's love of its founder, Kim Il-sung, isn't
limited to their calendar. The man, who's now been
dead for a quarter-century, was declared eternal president
by his contemporaries, giving him absolute power even in death. Following after Kim Il-sung,
Kim Jong-il and Jong-un are only considered Supreme
Leaders by comparison. This means that unlike
any other nation on Earth, North Korea could technically
be defined as a necrocracy, which means having a government that functions under the
rule of a dead leader. Creepy. Number 15, long-term punishment. It's no revelation that North Korea takes political dissidence
pretty seriously. But the punishments can be
even crazier than you'd think. If someone's accused of a political crime, like accidentally disrespecting
the Supreme Leader, it won't just be the guilty
party being punished. The suspect, their family, and
possibly even their friends will all be sent to a re-education camp. If the crime was
considered serious enough, the whole family will
remain there for life, with only the fully-indoctrinated
great-grandkids being allowed back into society. This system, called the "3 generations
of punishment" policy, was instigated by Kim Il-Sung in 1948 and unfortunately is
still used to this day. Number 14, Korean computing. While most people are
probably familiar with Mac or Windows operating systems,
in the Korean hermit kingdom, these programs are a no-go. Instead, anyone lucky
enough to own a computer uses a state-created
operating-system called Red Star. The program is essentially a Mac-rip off and uses a very similar UI. North Korea has its own
take on the internet too, with as many as 5000
state-controlled websites, only accessible in the DPRK. Strangest of all, on these sites, the names of Kim Jong-il and Kim Il-sung must be coded to appear 20% larger than the surrounding text. Sounds like someone's
over-compensating to me. Number 13, singing ban. In case North Koreans were at
risk of having too much fun, Kim Jong-un recently
placed a ban on gatherings involving singing and drinking. In a crackdown on any impure behavior, even Mother's Day
celebrations were outlawed, for fears they might detract
from the people's adulation of the supreme leader. Kim is your mommy now, okay? Number 12, statue laws. Some of the most iconic images of North Korea's capital, Pyongyang, feature the colossal statues
of its former leaders. Perhaps their great size is so memorable because it's actually illegal to photograph single parts of the statue. If you take a picture, you're legally-required to
photograph the entire statue. Not just that, but people
are forbidden to chew gum or even talk loudly nearby, as it's seen as disrespectful
to the former leaders. Even cars are required to
slow down as they pass, and cyclists are obliged
to dismount and walk while the statues are in sight. Talk about attention-seeking. Number 11, human fertilizer. North Korea's farmers are so
poor and resource-deprived, they're regularly forced to resort to using their own waste as fertilizer. There are even state-mandated
waste collections when resources run especially low, with quotas families
are expected to provide. It's such a sought-after
commodity that there are reports that people will actually
steal it from their neighbors. There have even been reports that a ringworm epidemic broke out due to the lack of sanitation resources involved in the human-fertilizer
gathering process. Moral of the story? Don't (indistinct) where you eat. Number 10, perfect liquor. Among the more light-hearted
of North Korean oddities are their claims that they've
invented a type of liquor that doesn't give you a hangover. This 80-proof drink is
made from ginseng extracts and replaces the standard alcohol sugars with scorched rice gluten instead, which the government claims is the secret to kicking hangovers. Whether these claims are
even slightly true or not, with Kim Jong Un's crackdown on drinking, it may be a while before the Western world gets a chance to try. Number nine, unicorns. While their liquor might be hangover-free, it seems to be getting
people plenty drunk. At least, that's the only
explanation I can come up with for North Korea's official
news source, KCNA, announcing that archeologists in Pyongyang discovered an ancient unicorn lair. Unicorns actually are featured heavily in Korean history textbooks, with one tale involving the ancient Korean King Tongmyong riding
one up and down the peninsula. The supposedly uncovered lair is, according to the DPRK's
finest archeologists, one of King Tongmyong's unicorn garages. I have to say, out of
all the ludicrous claims North Korea makes, this is the
one I most want to be true. Number eight, not NASA. Not wanting to be left out
of the great Space Race, the DPRK have commissioned
their own space program. It goes by the name, National Aerospace Development
Administration, or NADA. While this might mean nothing in Spanish, the program is real, and has its own logo: a hilariously-low-effort
rip-off of NASA's own. The program claims it launched
its first satellite in 1998, called Bright Star 1. But no other country has been
able to detect the satellite, suggesting it crashed back
down shortly after launch. Whoopsie! Number seven, fashion police. To really emphasize
how much the Kim regime dislikes Western culture, they've outlawed dressing in any way that could be seen as
a symbol of the West. They even have their own fashion police, made up of volunteers, who report dissenters to the government. You can be reported for
pretty much anything, from having inappropriately-long hair, to sporting blue jeans, which are seen as the ultimate
symbol of evil consumerism. As if picking outfits wasn't
already stressful enough. Number six, unhappy birthdays. As a North Korean, it'd suck to be born on
July 8th or December 17th. These were the death dates of Kim Il-sung, and Kim Jong-il respectively,
and consequently, it's illegal to celebrate on those days. This means more than 100,000 people celebrate their birthdays on July 9th or December 18th instead, so they don't distract
from the enforced sadness of the days of mourning. Not that it really matters anyway, because any celebration deemed excessive, that might detract from
praising the supreme leader, is an offense. To play it safe, all citizen birthdays
are kept on the down-low, so unfortunately, that
super-sweet 16th is off the cards. Number five, Kim's visits. As if life wasn't already tense enough for North Korean citizens, it's made even worse by
the ever-present threat of a random workplace
visit by Kim Jong-un. Any perceived disrespect
against the leader is enough to land you and your family
in a re-education camp, so you can imagine the stress. As you can see here, this lubricant factory worker is clearly counting down the seconds until he can breathe again. But, hey, Kim seems to be having fun. Number four, pleasure squad. One of the darkest
eccentricities of the DPRK has to be Kim Jong-un's pleasure squad. This all-female subsection
of the North Korean army are assigned to accompany
high-ranking officials, as well as the Supreme Leader himself. The squad is made exclusively
up of young, pretty women who are expected to tolerate
and perform unthinkable acts, all in the service of pleasing
their assigned superiors. The girls are often selected as teenagers, and are often forcibly
taken from their families directly into the service. While the rest of the world's governments are by no means free from
disgraceful practices, this is one thing I'm glad only officially exists in North Korea. Number three, world's largest stadium. On a lighter note, considering
how poor the country is, it seems strange that North Korea is home to the largest stadium in the
world with a 150,000 capacity. But they certainly make use of it, with their annual Arirang Festival. The show features spectacular
feats of gymnastics and full-blooded military ceremonies. It even features school children dressing up in piglet costumes, pretending to be birthed
from a mother pig, and then dancing around happily. Totally normal. The point of that
specific, piggy tradition is a celebration of the
fruitful lands of North Korea, which they claim have never
known famine or despair. It may be full of lies, but at least their annual
festival looks cool. Because that's what really matters, right? Number two, notepad people. If it wasn't already clear how much the North Korean
people respect their leader, check out this picture. Or this one. Notice anything? Well, Kim Jong-un is frequently pictured with people writing down
everything he says on notepads. This is a propaganda trick
Kim's father also used, designed to creates the sense that there's indispensable
wisdom in every word a North Korean leader says. But really, how much
timeless wisdom can be found in a standard man's shoes? I guess I'll have to ask Kim. Number one, Korean cure. According to the always-trustworthy
North Korean press, the DPRK has now developed the most important medical
invention of all time. It's called Kumdang-2, and this wonder serum is supposedly manufactured from secret
rare earth elements, and, of course, ginseng,
and can cure everything, including AIDS, Ebola, and even Cancer. And, I assume, it'll make light work of a certain other disease that's got us all worked up at the minute. While some Western
scientists have speculated that this miracle cure might
just ever so slightly be a lie, designed to attract
South Korean defectors, that's just ridiculous. The Supreme Leader's finest minds would never lie about something like this. Now if you'll excuse me, I'm off to North Korea to
ride out the current pandemic. Catch you on the flip-side. Have you heard of any
other crazy practices that only exist in North Korea? Let me know in the comments section below. Thanks for watching. (bright music)
