NARRATOR: Until the
late 19th century, Korea kept itself isolated
from the rest of the world, save for its immediate
neighbors, China and Japan. Korea earned the title of
Hermit Kingdom in the 1880s, a name still used today. Due to outside influence
and internal unrest, the 1,000 year rule
of the Korean monarchy started to deteriorate towards
the end of the 19th century. Japan began to exercise more and
more influence in the region, placing pressure on Korea's
existing government. After China came
to Korea's defense against Japanese aggression,
war broke out in 1894. The Sino-Japanese war ended
with a decisive victory for Japan, whose forces remained
in Korea for years to come. Japanese troops terrorize
the Korean population by forcing men into slave labor
and women into prostitution. Korea's King Gojong fled his
palace in 1896 under threat from the occupying
Japanese and the increasing resentment of his own people. The troubled monarch found
refuge at the Russian legation in Seoul. While under Russian
protection, King Gojong allowed the tsar's
government to influence his own political
decisions, decisions that furthered Russia's colonial
interests in the region. Russia had expanded
its influence in East Asia with
the construction of the Trans-Siberian Railroad. The Japanese perceived
this as a threat to their own growing
interest in China and Korea. Escalating tensions between
the Japanese and Russians ultimately boiled over, with
war breaking out in 1904. The Russo-Japanese War
ended the next year with no obvious victors. But the Treaty of Portsmouth,
brokered by President Theodore Roosevelt, formally
affirmed Japan's control over Korea as a protectorate. Japan's brutality
in Korea continued throughout the next few decades. But the abuses grew even
worse in the years leading up to World War II as the
Japanese empire underwent a massive military buildup. The use of slave labor
grew, and some Koreans were forced to take
Japanese names and worship Japanese Shinto gods. But the Koreans didn't
submit to their oppressors without a fight. Over 200,000 Korean
resistance fighters took up arms against the
Japanese in guerrilla warfare. Many who fought had adopted
communist ideologies, influenced by the
politics of nearby Russia. One of those communist guerrilla
leaders was Kim Song Ju. Born in Korea, but
raised in China, Kim fought the
Japanese in Manchuria before joining the
Soviet military for training towards
the end of World War II. Kim Song Ju will be an
important figure going forward. After World War II
ended, the Allies were left to divide the axis
territories amongst themselves. Germany was split in two. The west became a
democracy, while the east fell under communist rule. Back in Korea, the
Allies had already agreed before the end of
the war that the region would become ultimately
free and independent. In reality, Korea went
the way of Germany. The Soviets occupied the
north, while the United States controlled the south. In November of 1947, the United
Nations called for elections to establish a
democracy throughout the entire Korean peninsula. But the Soviets
refused to comply. They feared free elections would
weaken their strong influence in the north. Elections only took place in
the southern half of Korea. And Syngman Rhee won
the presidency in 1948. North Korea went in a
very different direction. This is where Kim Song
Ju, the anti-Japanese communist guerrilla leader,
comes back into play. By this time, he
had adopted the name Kim Il Sung, roughly translating
to Kim Become The Sun. The Soviets chose to install Kim
as their puppet in North Korea, capitalizing on his communist
ideals and Korean origins. However, because Kim was
mostly raised in China, he actually spoke
very little Korean. And his speeches
had to be written out and translated by the
Soviets before being recited. The Russians also promoted
Kim's past as a guerrilla leader and portrayed him
as a national hero to boost his Korean identity. Kim quickly set out to
assemble the institutions that make North Korea
what it is today, establishing the Korean
People's Army in 1948 and placing his old
guerrilla comrades in senior leadership roles. Kim also formed the North
Korean Federation of Literature and Art, through which
he sought to obtain complete control over the
country's cultural output. He began to foster a
cult of personality, using art and media to portray
himself as a godlike figure to the North Korean people. Three months after Syngman
Rhee's election in the south, Kim officially proclaimed the
Democratic People's Republic of Korea, with himself as leader. Kim sought to reunify the north
and south from the earliest days of his rule,
restoring Korea to its former imperial glory. After gaining the support
of a reluctant Joseph Stalin and China's new
leader, Mao Tse-tung, Kim invaded South
Korea in June of 1950. The ensuing war pitched South
Korea and the United States against China, North Korea,
and indirectly, the Soviet Union, resulting in
millions of deaths, both military and civilian. The Korean War ended with a
cease fire agreement in 1953. However, because a formal
peace treaty was never signed, technically, the two Koreas
are still at war to this day. Militarism and
authoritarianism have dominated North Korea since the
beginning of the Kim dynasty. Kim Il Sung transformed the
once prosperous and peaceful kingdom into a dictatorship
that emphasizes war over human rights. This legacy has been carried
out by his descendants into the 21st century.
