Ok, The time has come to tell you everything about my avventure in North Korea. Very particural things happened during my trip, which probably my dear friend Kim would not I tell you about But I thought about it, a lot. And I wondered, If I were a real repoter.. what should I do? And the answer was obvious. Tell the truth! Tell the truth about a country we know nothing, because of its dictatoriship which scares journalists and reporters. I'm neither one nor the other, but in my own little I want to tell you what I saw in North Korea. Having said that in my videos I filmed and interviewed people who still live there. So, I leave the interpretation to you of the answers they gave me and I'll refrain from commenting, because I don't want to put them in difficult situation. Remeber that, in North Korea there are 28 million people. For 70 years, the population is oppressed by authoritarian regime let by the Kim dinasty, which deny all basic human rights: press, press freedom, freedom of expression and religious association. It's the most dangerous and isolated country in the world. A open prison, in which no citizen can go out, except by running the risk of being captured and  killed. North Korea is a surreal world, which I want tell you about. Uff...Ready? Let's start from the very first day! From Beijing, where the train departs from and it takes 25 hours to Pyongyang, the capital of North Korea. There, I met with a representative of the agency who helped me to get  my North Korea visa. This is your korean visa. ok yeah, so important! Because, actually, entering in North Korea it's not difficult.. Unless you are a journalist or reporter, but you need an agency. it's impossible for a turist to get in without a travel agency. Basically, the agency is an intermediary between the North Korean government and you, because actually, it can only offer you two kinds of tours: the first one is a group tour, in which you can travel together with other tourists and it's the cheapest one, the most affordable; While the second one is a private tour, thanks to you could travel "alone". And I said "alone"..Because you're constantly, continuously accompanied by two guides who control every single step you take. Which I would call more guards, they are guides-guards. Let's call them GUIRDS, if you want, from now on. Obviously, the private tour costs a little more, but I chose that one because, in my mind I had a plan. I'll tell you about it later. If you are wondering how much a private tour costs.. I paid for three nights almost 1000 euros. 1000 euro...! How many arancini I'd could buy with 1000 euros! Well, I have to said however, the cost of package includes everything: all meals, therefore all the restaurants, all nights in the hotel all museums, all transfers.. Ah, pay attention! One Thing.. To be clear.. You can''t choose the hotel. You can't't choose the reastaurants. Everything is already arranged by the North Korean government. eheh I have to laugh to tell you this part of the story, even if actually there's nothing to laugh. During the brefing, the intermediary repeated to me over and over things not to do absolutley in North Korea. And I assure you I was well-intentioned, I listened him, I took notes, I asked questions to try not to risk anything. Now, I'm going to make you a list of all these rules. And, don't ask me how.. During 3 days I've been there I was able to break ..all of them. However.. I left the country without being arrested and with all my videos. Very first rule: it's forbidden to criticize the regime. Clear! Stupid question: Is it possible to meet the leader? It's forbidden to film and photograph soldiers or buildings under construction, it's also forbidden to film or photograph from the train windows or from the car windows which will take you around. Pay attention to this! because it's very interesting: it's very forbidden to take photos of only parts of monuments or paintings which representing leaders. For them it's a very serious affront. In fact, every time I filmed or I was taking photos one of the Guirds was always behind me.. checking what  I was doing. This is even more rich! It's forbidden to fold the newspaper in the part where there is the supreme leader's photo, Kim Jong-un. It's strictly forbidden to speak about religion. In North Korea, there is no a religion? or to introduce sacred texts in the country Because, in reality, the unique God fro them is their leader. This is good! Forbidden to named the country, North Korea. What's the tipical, the most famous dish in North Korea? Because yes.. for them, the country doesn't called North Korea, it's Korea. Or otherwise D. P. R. K. It means Democratic People's Republic Of Korea. Disobedience, non-compliance and transgression of these rules directly implies to deportation from the country or to be arrest. eeeh!? Ah, I forgot..The cherry on the cake. Just a little detail. In North Korea, internet doesn't work and you cannot make calls, so our mobile phones don't work. Therefore you are in the country with the most ferocious dictatorship in the world and if something ever happens to you nobody will know it. it's good, isn't it? After receiving the long list of explanation..I got on the train and after passing the baggage check by North Korean sodierls.. Finally.. I got into North Korea. A magical land, lush and unspoil**.. no!...From the beginning the landscape is barren, gloomy and foggy. And trying to glimpse what there was behind the 50's buildings.. I had the impression that the best buildings, the most modern ones, are in the front trying to cover everything behind them. Even the freight trains seem somehow being covered, to not show what they are carrying. It also started to snow. I took the advantage to film the last video before entering the capital, Pyongyang. Uff! OK, I'm alraedy on the North Korean train. And I arrive to Pyounyang tonight, in the capital. And probabily this is the last time, I'm able to speak without risking to be listened to somebody. Let's start officialy Happines Project in North Korea. I have to be able to make my ten question about happinnes to North korean. If they'll be my guides or they'll be passersby. I have to be able to involved the formula recipe of happiness. What's the problem? It's illegal to make any kind of interview, and so I should make my ten question in any casual conversations. What a wonderful day, very darling Dong. But, listen! What is, in your opinion, that thing always makes you smile? Eh! Lol, eh! Something like this! To give less attention, I'll try to film everything with my phone Eh, guys! This is the mission!.. ... e anche...not be arrested.. That would not be bad! Everybody is exceited because we've just arrived in Pyoungyang! We couldn't see anything because there are very few lights turned on. very few and even more it's raining! North Korea! Waiting for me out of the station there were already my two guirds and car driver Surprise, surprise! They are two girls of my age. I just met two guides: TChoe and Kim. I immediately try to film with my phone, to test how the react. Nice to meet you! Two ladies! I didn't expected that! Really?Yeah! So, we're gonna spend the next three days toghether. yeah! We all three! Like you too and the driver Wow! I'm so spoilt! Three people just for me. Yeah! Wow! The hotel is not bad! For the next three days my new guird friends will sleep in the same hotel And I can't put a foot out of here without them The hotel looks very luxurious and very very too much quiet. This is the same hotet where a few years ago an American boy named Otto Warmbier It'd seem to have stolen a stupid poster and he was sentenced to 15 years of forced labor to end up mysteriously killed. It's beautiful! I didn't expected like that! Yeah! Ehm..In our country hotels are divided ehm..in classes: special class, first class and second class. This is the special class hotel. Wow! This is your room card. Surreal! Cameras! Wow! I'm so exceited! Room number 20 on 37th floor. Et voilà! Pay attention...the room card Ahhhh! So.. Wow! Look at here! I expected it much more modest, instead I have two beds, so I could sleep for half night in one and half night in the other. TV already on, on an channel.. on a French channel. This is interesting! French channel.. Let's see the view! Because I'm on the 37th floor. So.. perfect! I see absolutely nothing. Because...In North Korea the evening is completley dark, completely dark. I've yet to find out why. There is also a mini-bar Let's see what my mini-bar has to offer Magnificent! Delicacies from all over the world! The bathroom! I'm curious to see the bathroom. Ahhh.. The bathroom is absolutely 50s. Marble! it looks fake! Perfect! curtain!... of shower, which sticks to you like a second skin when you take a shower. Toilet! And.. perfect, there's also an inevitable phone for endless sessions on the toilet. Here there is a gas mask. Clearly, This is very important, especially for when you go to the toilet in a .. heavy way. Guys!.. Let's find out what this special hotel hast to offer. Oh my..! There is everything! Barber, bowling, billiards ping-pong, karaoke, massages, sauna, pool I'm suprised about the hotel. I had very low expectations! and instead it's .. a classic Grand Hotel of the 50s I had seen many at the time, in the 50s. I had been in many hotels. However.. there are more than 500 rooms 47 floors And I'm.. the only one in the hotel I haven't yet met anyone other than the employees. ok. Here We find every kind of things. I'm really curious to see all the extra activities on this -1 floor They told me I can't film anything inside, except table tannis, they mean ping-pong. So, let's see what I can.. This is ping-pong. Hi! Ehi! How you doing? Play ping pong? Do you wanna play with me? You? Me and you? Really? Let's go! Yeah! you good? I'm ok! lol Let's see what a figure of shit I'm going to do. She's a champion, for sure. Lol. She gave me the busted-up one, eh?! Damn! Guys, I haven't played in a lifetime. I'll try to do the best I can, but.. Nooo! I'll explan this one, later! Yesss! I won! You won! Thank you very much! Thank you! And Italy win! North Korea against Italy North Korea against Italy.. unfortunally Lol! I won! Bye! It's starts with a bang! A great international challenge immediately: Italia - North Korea, deservedly won by athlete ..Giuseppe Bertuccio D'Angelo She was playing in heels. Luckly, otherwise she'd killed me. Being alone i such a big hotel It's a bit dismal. it scares me. Because you can't thing: I can do what I want, no! You know that as soon as you get wrong It's a good mess. Let's see what there is down stairs Here there is biliards. Hi! Hi! Hello! Can I enter? Biliardo?! Yeah! just to see.. no? NO! ok, ok! Bye Bye! I'm alone, I'm alone inside here. Bowling. Hi! Can I see? Yes! Thank you! There's nobady! it's a little bit scary Noo No? You don't want? It looks closed, but actually it's Saturday night, ok that.. ..It's low season but It should be the karaoke. Tonight, it's Saturday night so this is the most you could expect. HI! Hi, Bye bye! ok, so kareoke is faild! Here there are the.. pool, massages, sauna.. Hello! Hello! Hi, nice to meet you! Can I? Massages.. Sauna? Sauna, How much? How much it? Massages? Yeah! Massages? 3,5 euros ok.. ok this is.. no? ok no! And I thought there.. but you know what? Let's try the massage north korean because.. Go out, I can't go out So.. let's try everything: Thank you! Bye bye! Thank you for having beat me up for half an hour. I paid to be..to be beaten for half an hour. A 60-year-old lady. She hung on hooks on the roof and she started to step on me. I mean to step on me with her feet for half an hour. I fell.. light without her on me. I think tour of the hotel is enough for today, that's ok. This is the light. What the hell It come off Wait, wait, wait.. Let's see.. I find out something.. What's this? You know what? Let's do as I don't see anything Before taking, I'd to check if there were cameras. hidden bugs, but apart from this strange bedside table, I didn't find anything strange, so I'm absolutely surprised I thought they're going to controlled me every single step. in every movement I did, instead Everyone is very friendly, everyone is very kind. I'm surprised, I'm surpreised..I didn't expect a North Korea like this. The only thing I can't do....... is leave the hotel alone. it's not allowed to leave the hotel without my guides. But... I had good time tonight, so no problmes. And I'm so lucky because my guides are my age They are very young, super nice and also super curious because they've never seen an Italian. I'm the first Italian they met so they've been asked me a billion questions about our country. And it's wonderful to tell them how many beautiful things we have and see the reaction in their eyes because it's as if they were visiting our country throught my words. So it's a beautiful feeling But then there is another part of me who would like to tell them a lot a mess of bullshit. Like, our president is Topogigio. to see if they're gonna belive it or not but I'll hold back.. I won't do it, I promise. I want to get in good to ask them many questions as possible and to have more answers about their country, about happiness I hope, hopefully they could answers. Anyway I'm tired now, tomorrow I wake up at 6:30 h . First day of visits. Maybe I'd better go to bed now. Goodnight! In the next episode It's..The situation isn't.. of the best. And I think the guy is dead, I think is dead.
