It's a rumble in the jungle, a showdown on the 
38th parallel. The hermit kingdom of North Korea   versus the United States of America. Kim Jong 
Un vs... well, we're not sure who really because   this script was written before the presidential 
election. It's the American bald eagle versus   the North Korean... trash pigeon?... doesn't 
really seem like North Korea has an official   national animal. It's a showdown the world's 
been expecting for decades, but how do these   two antagonist powers stack up? Who really has the 
advantage in a showdown on the Korean Peninsula? For this scenario let's compare the two 
countries alone, and without the help of allies,   to see how they really measure up against each 
other. Overall the United States is ranked as   the world's number 1 military power, and 
currently the only global superpower.   It's a common mistake to call Russia or China 
superpowers, but the definition of a superpower   is a state that can exert economic, cultural, 
and military influence worldwide. Currently,   the US is the only nation with the military 
fleets and cultural/economic clout to do so. North Korea is no slouch though in the 
military department, and despite being   a financially destitute hermit kingdom, it's 
managed to field a military that places it at   the number 25 spot in global rankings. This is 
because most of the official budget of the North   Korean government goes to its military, 
and the military also receives hundreds   of millions in covert financing, typically the 
result of state-sponsored criminal enterprises.  In terms of manpower, the United States fields 
an active duty force of 1.4 million personnel,   versus North Korea's 1.28 million. The US 
also fields a greater force of reservists,   with 860,000 personnel vs North Korea's reserve 
force of 600,000. The US barely has the numbers   advantage here, but in a grueling multi-year 
conflict, the US has the population advantage,   with 4.2 million reaching service age every 
year versus North Korea's measely 415,000.   If North Korea wants to win, clearly it has 
to secure victory as quickly as possible. Wars cost money though, and turns out 
it's an extremely expensive affair.   The latest US defense budget is about $750 
billion, versus North Korea's 1.6 billion.   This ofcourse is only the official government 
figure, and North Korea's real defense budget   is easily hundreds of millions greater thanks to 
all that black market activity- remember kids,   doing drugs may seem tubular, but you're 
just helping north korea go nuclear. But let's check out all the 
toys that those big budgets buy. In the air the US fields 13,264 
aircraft, versus North Korea's 949.   Not only is there a massive numbers disparity, 
but a huge disparity in capabilities as well. The US currently relies on the F-15 Eagle, and 
the F-18 Superhornet as its primary air defense   and air attack platforms. These two aircraft are 
4th generation models, but have received serious   upgrades to their capabilities which boost them 
into a 4.5th generation capability. Complimenting   US fighter forces are 187 F-22s, the world's 
only fully operational 5th generation fighter   and officially the world's deadliest fighter 
aircraft. As more and more F-35s come online   however and achieve initial operational 
capability status, the entire US fighter   fleet is poised to become fully 5th generation, a 
significant battlefield advantage against any foe. North Korean air forces are decades behind the 
US in capability. It's most numerous fighter   aircraft, the Chengdu J-7, was developed in the 
1960s and exported by China. It's most capable   aircraft, the Mig-29, was developed in the 1970s 
as a counter to the American F-15- however North   Korea's Mig 29s number at only 35, and it's 
believed that they lack anything resembling   modern avionics. To make matters worse, North 
Korea's entire inventory of air-to-air missiles   herald back to the Cold War, and the 
nation possesses less than 500 of them. An air battle between the US and North Korea would 
be hopeless for the hermit kingdom, which is why   its pilots are trained in kamikaze tactics. If war 
were to break out, North Korea's air force would   launch one-way attacks across the DMZ, knowing 
its air force could never survive an air war. In the mountainous terrain of North Korea, 
perhaps no aircraft is more important however   than the attack helicopter. Capable of taking 
out armored forces and providing recon and fire   support in places regular aircraft would find 
it difficult to operate, attack helicopters   would be of paramount importance in a showdown 
between the two countries. The United States   fields an inventory of 967 Apache helicopters, 
one of the deadliest attack helos ever built.   Not only is each Apache equipped with 
state of the art electronics and sensors,   but these agile birds are extremely tough 
to boot. When an entire flight of Apaches   was ambushed in a protracted battle against 
insurgents on the ground in Afghanistan,   the US famously only lost a single bird 
while decimating ground forces below them. North Korea's 20 attack helos are Soviet-built 
Mig-24 'Hinds', an extremely capable attack   helicopter that despite being dated, still packs 
an impressive punch. Good thing for US ground   forces that North Korea only operates a small 
amount of these powerful Russian birds of prey. On the ground, North Korea is almost neck and 
neck with the US in terms of armored forces.   With 6,045 combat tanks versus the US's 6,289, 
the two tank armies are almost evenly matched in   terms of numbers. In terms of quality though, 
well, North Korea once more suffers greatly. North Korea's most formidable tank is a 
native upgrade to the Soviet T-62 known   as Ch'ŏnma-ho. With the T-62 being North Korea's 
most numerous, nearly modern design, large numbers   of them were upgraded with new armor, fire and 
sighting systems, and other sensors. In effect,   these may be upgraded designs, but the core 
model is still the 1960's era T-62. It's known   that North Korea operates at least 1,000 of 
these tanks, but may have upwards of 1,200. North Korea's second most prolific 
tank is the T-54 and T-55,   of which it operates 2,000. These dated, 
underpowered tanks were terrifying when   first fielded by the Soviet Union in the 50s, 
but as Iraq found out in the first gulf war,   present absolutely zero threat to the 
US's modern Abrams. On the ground,   North Korea's tank forces simply could not hope 
to do more than delay an American armored advance. One area where North Korea rises above the US 
though is in the size of its rocket artillery   forces, fielding 2,110 versus the US's 1,366. 
Rocket artillery may not have the endurance of   fire of traditional artillery, but provides 
one extremely crucial advantage over regular   artillery- by firing all of its munitions in 
extremely rapid succession, rocket artillery puts   all of its steel on target within seconds, giving 
troops and vehicles little time to seek cover.   While the US fields more modern versions of rocket 
projectors, the technology is so simple that even   North Korea's soviet-era technology poses a 
significant and deadly threat to US forces. On the seas, the US fields a fleet of 
490 ships versus North Korea's 984.   North Korea may seem to have the 
advantage in numbers, but that's   because the vast majority of its ships are 
small torpedo boats that can't operate far   from shore. The second largest element of 
North Korea's navy is its underwater forces,   with one of the world's largest submarine 
forces numbering anywhere between 60 to 80. 40 of these subs are the medium- 
sized diesel electric Sang-O class,   built in the late 90s. While not particularly 
advanced versus the US Navy's Los Angeles and   Virginia class nuclear submarines, diesel-electric 
submarines used in a defensive posture close   to shore can be an incredibly effective 
force, even if technologically outclassed.   By loitering near the shore and 
running silently on battery power,   North Korea could simply choose to have 
these subs lie in wait for oncoming US   ships and launch deadly ambushes. The nation's 
willingness to operate these craft in a kamikaze   style similar to its air force only adds to the 
deadliness of North Korea's submarine force. By comparison the US operates 66 submarines, most 
of which are Los Angeles class attack submarines.   These are in the process of being phased out 
by the new Virginia class, which incorporates   many of the Seawolf class technologies at a 
lower cost- and thus with less effectiveness   than the deadly Seawolf, which is sadly far 
too expensive to field in large numbers.   3 of the legendary Seawolf class submarines 
remain in service with the Navy, with no   near-term plans to retire them, though 
the Navy is planning on acquiring a new   modern variant of the Seawolf to use on 
extremely important or sensitive missions. With 20 aircraft carriers, which includes smaller 
carriers meant to support amphibious operations,   the US is guaranteed to have air power anywhere in 
the world it needs it. By comparison North Korea   has zero aircraft carriers, and could not hope to 
ever operate one in its current economic climate-   let alone ensure it survives 
first contact against US forces. Despite all of these naval advantages to 
the US though, North Korea once more has   the advantage in one area: mine warfare. With 
23 vessels specially equipped to mine sea lanes,   versus the US's 11, North Korea is poised to 
make an amphibious attack against it by the   superior US fleet a costly affair in terms of 
manpower and equipment. Clearing sea mines is   an extremely time consuming and dangerous 
affair, and with so many mine-laying ships   North Korea could make entire beaches and 
ports completely inaccessible to US forces. The military advantage is clearly in favor of 
the United States, but a showdown between the   two countries is far more nuanced than merely 
comparing numbers. The US must maintain global   commitments even during a war, meaning that it 
wouldn't be able to commit more than 30-40% of its   total force to a conflict with North Korea. That 
brings the number parity way down on the US side,   though the US's far superior equipment and 
training, or force multipliers, practically ensure   a US victory. However, it would be an extremely 
costly victory for the US and its allies,   as North Korea is well prepared to make a push 
north from South Korea an exceedingly bloody   affair. With its mine laying capabilities, 
the North Korean navy could make the ocean   around the Korean peninsula inaccessible for 
weeks, disrupting not just military operations   but civilian traffic as well and shutting down 
one of the busiest trade arteries in the world. Then there's North Korea's nuclear program, 
the full extent of which is still not known.   What is clear is that North Korea has the 
materials and technology for several bombs-   some estimates place the current North Korean 
stockpile at 30-40 weapons. Even though most   of these weapons couldn't reach the US mainland, 
they would make any conflict on the peninsula an   extremely dangerous affair- with a losing Kim Jong 
Un likely to decide to use nuclear weapons against   US forces and South Korea rather than be 
deposed as so many dictators before him. Now go check out Weird Things That Only Exist 
in North Korea, or this other video instead!
