This video was made possible by Skillshare. Start learning new skills with a free trial
by being one of the first 1000 to sign up at the link in the description. This is a video about skiing. Now, you see, I, Sam, the narrator, love skiing. But my writer Adam, who wrote this script,
hates skiing, and guess what folks, writers have all the power. Just watch: I, Sam, believe that skiing is
dumb. The only reason I do it is because I’m insecure
about how cool Adam’s hobbies are. Also, I will give Adam a raise. This is a legally binding promise that is
valid in court. Now that that’s out of the way… here’s a picture of Kim Jong Un riding the
chairlift at North Korea’s Masikryong ski resort. Now this picture is odd for two reasons: first,
because by riding the lift, Kim the Tool Man Taylor is actually doing a thing, instead
of looking at a thing—which historically is his favorite activity—and second, because
it’s really weird that North Korea has a ski resort in the first place. I mean, ski resorts are a luxury usually reserved
for wealthy enclaves of America and Western Europe—plus Japan, for some reason. Skiing just isn't a budget-friendly sport,
so why did a country that can barely afford a skee ball build a ski resort? Well, there are three kind-of reasons, and
one big-boy reason. The first kind-of reason is that despite what
you might suppose from his size or body shape or whole general vibe, Kim Jong Un loves skiing,
which he learned to do while being educated in Switzerland. Seeing as Kimothée Chalamet famously loves
bringing stuff to North Korea that’s usually reserved for rich Western Countries—cars,
nuclear weapons, Dennis Rodman, etc—it was only a matter of time before he brought in
the old overpriced slip n’ slide. The second kind-of reason, and the one the
government always says publicly, is that it supposedly gives average North Koreans an
opportunity to enjoy one of the finer things in life. But considering most North Koreans aren’t
even able to enjoy the regular things in life, and many aren’t allowed to be alive at all,
call me crazy but I think the North Korean government may be fudging the truth with this
one. The third kind-of reason is the same reason
that every four years the world has to pretend they care about bobsledding: the Winter Olympics. You see, when South Korea hosted the Winter
Olympics in 2018, North Korea went all annoying younger brother and tried to copy them, hoping
they could hold an Olympic event in North Korea. That didn’t happen, but they did field a
joint North-South Korea women’s hockey team, proving that when the Koreas come together,
they can do anything, including being outscored 28-2 across five games. But the final reason—the big boy one—is
as a sanctions work around. You see, North Korea has been in international
timeout since 2006, when they began test-driving nuclear flying boom sticks, leading the UN
Security Council to ban North Korea from basically all forms of trade with other countries—except,
that is, for tourism. So, while North Korean people can’t afford
to ski, rich Chinese tourists, and the smattering of brave and rich European and American tourists
who aren’t afraid of being Otto Warmbiered, can—and that’s who primarily uses the
resort. This foreign tourism is especially useful
because North Korea is desperate for foreign currency: their own currency, the North Korean
won, is about as valuable as NeoPets’ NeoPoints, so if they can get their hands on US dollars,
or Chinese Yen, or European whatever they’re calleds, they want them. But, you ask, shouldn’t those same sanctions
stop them from being able to build a ski resort in the first place? And it turns out that you, the hypothetical
question-asking viewer we invented for transition purposes, would be right—in fact, the UN
has explicitly banned North Korea from importing luxury goods. Nevertheless, Kim persisted—which was made
possible by a glaring loophole: the global big brains neglected to define what actually
counted as a luxury item, and in lieu of having a list, just decided that each nation would
figure it out for themselves, opening the door for Kimpossible to simply claim that
ski gear wasn’t a luxury. Now, while most countries just responded to
such claims with an “uhh yeah it is,” the government of North Korea’s closest
ally, West North Korea, had their back. The backbone of North Korea’s ski resort—the
chairlift that Kim’s straddling in this photo—came from China. It’s actually an Austrian ski lift, but
Austria didn’t sell it to North Korea—instead, they sold it to China, who then sold it to
North Korea. It’s the type of genius workaround the UN
never could have seen coming, and when the rest of the world says “hey why are you
letting North Korea have nice things” like they did in the 2015 UN Security Council Panel,
China just says “well those weren’t fancy things for fancy people, but normal things
for normal people. Also, we’re China, so like… literally come at us.” Now, this may shock you, but it seems that
the idea of a profitable winter tourist destination in the world’s most unwelcoming country
isn’t panning out the way North Korea hoped. The DPRK has stated that the resort hosts
seventy thousand visitors a year, which is actually pretty impressive, except for the
part where that’s definitely a lie. If we take the going rate of North Korean
overestimation—about 10x higher than reality—then the area would see about seven thousand visitors
a year, an estimate that would line up with visitors’ accounts of a nearly empty mountain
that offers $40 lift tickets in a country where the per capita income is less than $2,000
a year. So in sum, North Korea has a ski resort that’s
built for its people except that it’s not, it’s a big success except that it’s a
failure, it isn’t legal except that it sort of is, and most importantly, the Unified Korean
women’s hockey team has a long way to go. While skis are bad, you know what’s good:
skills. See what I did there? Skis, skills, they sound the same. You don’t like it? Well maybe I’d have the time to write better
lines if I got more productive by taking my friend Thomas Frank’s new Skillshare course,
Productivity for Creatives, where he walks you step-by-step through building a productivity
system that works for you, this time specifically for people aiming to do creative work. If you’re already a productivity whiz, maybe
you can use some of that productive time on any one of Skillshare’s other great courses,
ranging from illustration to filmography to creative writing to photography to how to
make the perfect grilled cheese sandwich. There are a number of different options on
topics and skill levels, so you’re sure to find something perfect for you. To get a free trial, be one of the first 1,000
to sign up at the link in the description.
