In an unprecedented move, The United States
is sending a third aircraft carrier strike force to the western Pacific region, in an
apparent warning to North Korea to stop its ballistic missile and nuclear programs. The USS Nimitz, will join the USS Carl Vinson
and the USS Ronald Reagan, in the western Pacific. USS Nimitz was scheduled to be deployed to
the Middle East, but now it has been rerouted to the Western Pacific. The USS Carl Vinson & the USS Ronald Reagan
are already in the Sea of Japan. James Fanell, former director of Intelligence
and Information Operations for the U.S. Pacific Fleet told: “I served in the U.S. Navy from
1986 to 2015, and I do not remember a time that the U.S. has ever deployed three aircraft
carrier strike groups to the Korean peninsula” It must be noted that each of these ships
lead their own Carrier Strike Group. Each of the 3-strike group has at least one
cruiser, a destroyer squadron of at least two destroyers and or frigates, as well as
nuclear powered submarine. Apart from that, multiple Logistic ships and AWACS support
them. In this video, Defense Updates looks at the
3 most important components of the strike group, namely the Carrier itself, the Destroyers,
& the Submarines one by one, and analyzes how powerful the combined force of 3 carriers
strike group is? All the 3 ships are of NIMITZ class. The Nimitz-class supercarriers are a class
of 10 nuclear-powered aircraft carriers in service with the United States Navy. The lead
ship of the class is named for World War II United States Pacific Fleet commander Fleet
Admiral Chester W. Nimitz. Nimitz-class aircraft carriers were designed
to be improvements on previous U.S. aircraft carriers, in particular the Enterprise and
Forrestal-class. Nimitz CVN-68 was commissioned on 3 May 1975,
Carl Vinson (CVN-70) on 13 March 1982 and Ronald Reagan (CVN-76) on12 July 2003. Nimitz-class ships each cost around $4.5 billion
and have been the symbol of U.S power. They have been used to project power far off from
US mainland. All 10 Nimitz-class aircraft carriers were
constructed between 1968 and 2006 at Newport News Shipbuilding Company, Virginia, in the
largest dry-dock in the western hemisphere. These are some of the largest vessels constructed.
All the 3 ships have a displacement of around 100000 tons, and overall length of 332.8 m
(1,092 feet). To give viewers a perspective, it is about 3 football fields long. Each of this ship is powered by two A4W nuclear
reactors, kept in separate compartments. These power 4 propeller shafts and can produce
a maximum speed of over 30 knots or 56 km/h. As a result of the use of nuclear power, the
ships are capable of operating continuously for over 20 years without refueling, and are
predicted to have a service life of over 50 years.
Practically they have unlimited range. All of these 3 super carriers have a flight
group of more than 60 aircraft, including F-18 jet fighters.
These are twin-engine, supersonic, all-weather carrier-capable 4th generation multirole fighter
aircrafts. They have a payload of 7700 kg (17000 lbs),
and can carry ground attack weapons as well as air-to-air missiles. Nimitz class possesses multitude of different
radars including electronically scanned array 3D radars.
It is equipped with 16 to 24 RIM-7 Sea Sparrow or NATO Sea Sparrow missiles. RIM-7 Sea Sparrow
is a US ship-borne short-range anti-aircraft and anti-missile weapon system, primarily
intended for defense against anti-ship missiles. Close in weapon (CIWS) duties are performed
by Phalanx, & RIM-116 Rolling Airframe missile. The Destroyer component of the Carrier Strike
Group generally contains 1 or 2 Arleigh Burke-class guided missile destroyers.
The class is named for Admiral Arleigh Burke, the most famous American destroyer officer
of World War II, and later Chief of Naval Operations.
US Navy has 68 of these, each costing around $1.843 billion. Arleigh Burke-class warships are designed
as multi mission destroyers capable of Anti Aircraft Warfare (AAW), Anti Submarine Warfare
(ASW), Ballistic Missile Defense (BMD) and Anti Surface warfare (ASuW). These can operate
in open sea or coastal waters. Arleigh Burke class destroyers are among the
largest destroyers in the world. They have an overall length of about 505 to
509 feet (154 to 155 m) and displacement of about 9,200 tons. They have a speed of 30+ knots (55+ km/h)
and range of 4,400 nmi (8,100 km). The Arleigh Burke class of guided missile
destroyers (DDGs) is the United States Navy's first class of destroyer built around the
Aegis Combat System. The Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense System
is a US Department of Defense Missile Defense Agency program developed to provide defense
against short to intermediate-range ballistic missiles. Aegis BMD is designed to intercept
ballistic missiles post-boost phase and prior to reentry. It enables Arleigh Burke destroyers to shoot
down enemy ballistic missiles by expanding the Aegis Combat System with the addition
of the AN/SPY-1 radar and Standard missile technologies. SM-3 missile having range of
2,500 km & speed of Mach 10.2 is expected to be particularly effective. Arleigh Burke class destroyers are one of
the most heavily armed destroyers in the world and are designed to be a multi weapons platform: They have 96 cell Mk 41 VLS (Vertical Launch System), which can be configured with the combination of different weapons, based on mission. Here are some important
once. 1. Tomahawk cruise missile for Land attack
2. RIM-66M Standard medium range SAM for air defense 3. RIM-161 Standard Ballistic missile for AEGIS ballistic missile defense It also has 2 × Mk 141 Harpoon Missile Launcher
for Anti Ship role. 2 × Mark 32 triple torpedo tubes are present
for launching Mk-46 or Mk-50 torpedoes 2 MH-60R Seahawk LAMPS III helicopters are
also present for Anti Submarine Warfare. Other than these, they are equipped with long-range
naval gun and multiple Close In Weapon System. The Virginia class, also known as the SSN-774
class, is a class of nuclear-powered fast attack submarines (hull classification symbol
SSN) in service with the United States Navy. The submarines are designed for a broad spectrum
of open-ocean and littoral (shallow coastal water) missions.
US Navy has 13 of these and also building another 6. These cost around $ 1.8 billion
each. These have length of 377 ft (115 m) and displacement
of around 7,900 metric tons Being nuclear powered, these can stay underneath
the ocean surface for an unlimited amount of time, constrained by only food supply and
maintenance requirements. Powered by 30 MW, S9G reactor, these submarines
can reach speed of 25 knots and can move down to depths of 800 ft (240 m). Virginia class is designed to take out enemy
surface vessel, submarines as well as it can strike ground targets. With 12 VLS & 4 torpedo tubes, it is capable
of launching UGM-109 Tactical Tomahawks, Harpoon missile & Mark 48 torpedoes. The Tomahawk is a long-range, all-weather,
subsonic missile that is used for land- attacks. At 5.56 m long without a booster, traveling
at 880 km per hour, it is capable of delivering more than 450 kilograms of conventional explosives. Harpoon missile having speed of 537 miles
per hours, and range of around 120 km plays the role of anti ship missile. Mark 48 torpedoes have effective firing range
of 38 km, and have a 650 lb warhead. A single hit from this torpedo can be deadly for any
ship or submarine. The combined force of 3-carrier strike group
will have around 200 F 18 strike aircrafts. The MiG-29 is the K P A F's most modern fighter
and North Korea operates approximately 40 of these.
F 18 aircrafts equipped with modern air-to-air missile and coupled with US fighter pilot's
better training and strategy will be able to take out the North Korean air force in
few hours. North Korea has no Destroyers and has very
few Frigates and Corvettes. The vessels are no match for the Arleigh Burke-class destroyers. The North Korean military is in possession
of a fleet of about 70 submarines, comprised of approximately 20 Romeo class submarines
(1,800 tons), 40 Sang-O class submarines (300 tons) and 10 Yono class submarines (130 tons). These submarines being small and fairly silent
have the potential to sneak in close to US Carrier Strike Group. But given the Carrier
Strike Group will have cover from P-8 Poseidon Anti Submarine aircraft, apart from its own
submarine and Anti submarine warfare capable Arleigh Burke-class, chances of North Korean
vessels causing major damage is unlikely. In simple terms, the 3 carrier strike group
is expected to decimate the North Korean forces in few days.
