Between 1910 and 1945,
Korea was occupied by Japan. After Japan lost the war, the victorious powers
divided the Korean people into two irreconcilable political camps, Communist North Korea
and Capitalist South Korea. To this day the two countries
face each other in hostility. People from North and South are forbidden
from setting foot on the other side, or even from meeting people
from the other side. And while by now
even American tourists travel to the North, Koreans from the South may not. The director, South Korean by birth, only managed to enter North Korea by way of her German passport. My home country
has been divided for over 70 years. The landscape was split, countless families were torn apart. For over half a century,
people didn't even know if their relatives
were even still alive. In the West, we always
see the same pictures of the North: military parades, rockets,
soldiers, famine, well-trained children, and a leader,
cheered by the frenetic masses. But what will I get to see? After all, destinations and protagonists
will not be chosen by me alone, they will be presented to me
by the local partners. Will I even find out more about the kind of life
people here really lead? How will the people in the North
see me, who was born in the South? Will I be welcomed, or will they
be afraid of the encounter with me? The first destination proposed to us
was the holy mountain Baekdu, according to mythology
the birthplace of the Korean people. Legend has it that the Ruler of Heaven
sent his son to this place. Here he fathered Dangun,
the first Korean King. This mountain is also said to be
the birthplace of General Kim Jong Il, who in his country
is called the Sun of the 21st Century. Ah, this is nice. Our Great Leader fought to the east, west
and north of Baekdu Mountain, and wrote the history of our liberation. This is the birthplace
of the great General Kim Jong Il. It was built in June 1941. Our Mother Kim Jong Suk lived here
until spring 1943. From here she organized the revolutionary
actions at home and abroad. General Kim Jong Il was born
on February 16th 1942 in this modest hut. There was much hardship and poverty
when he was born, there was not even
a blanket to wrap him in. The soldiers pulled threads
out of their uniforms and collected scraps of cloth
from their backpacks to make a blanket for him. It is stored in this house. Because life was so hard, Mother Kim Jung Suk ate dried grass
and raw corn. A few months after his birth,
General Kim Jong Il had to eat flour mixed with water and grains of corn
off the soldiers' plates as well. But most days he went hungry. Despite these harsh living conditions,
Mother Kim Jong Suk did her best to educate General Kim Jong Il to become the son
of the Holy Mountain Baekdu. The things she once used
are exhibited in this place of his birth. The stream of visitors
to the General's birthplace does not end. The visitors come continuously
throughout the year. There is another group coming up now. You must be tired
of doing the same thing 12 times a day. It is hard, but I'm full of energy
because I have the honour to look after the birthplace
of the General. I'd like more people to visit. Come back anytime.
-Yes, I will come back. And you I hope
you become a mother soon. At my age? When the year and the day
Come to an end Then the light shines
Within the Party For the destiny
Of the fatherland and the people Comrade Kim Jong Un
Will stay awake this night as well Until the end of time We will look after his well-being With immutable hearts We will all follow him as one FOLLOWING THE GREAT COMRADE KIM JONG UN
FORWARD TO ULTIMATE VICTORY The Great Marshal Kim Jong Un
taught us the following: Youth, no matter where you work, you will do your best to make
our socialistic fatherland stronger. You should continue the Party's
revolutionary economic politics. In June last year,
the Jagangdo combat unit took over the construction of a sports park. It is meant to be a sports park
for the people and the youth. As there was not enough petrol
for the machines, the combat unit
worked with their bare hands and filled the swamp
with soil and stones. The soldiers slept
less than three hours a day. They slept at the construction site
to save the time of going to work. With this willpower
they managed to finish the sports park after six months instead of one year.
They performed a real miracle. Such an exemplary combat unit! The great Marshal was pleased
when he heard about its completion, and named it "People's Amusement Park". When the soldiers heard about this, they embraced each other
and cried tears of joy. So much for today. There was a request
from the service centre for promotional material and photos.
Can we deliver this? Please do so quickly. Sundays and Mondays
it is crowded with people here. It is hard to move. Today is Saturday,
which is "Political Day". We provide a service,
so we are working today. But today is "Political Day"
for everybody else, so we have fewer visitors today.
-What is "Political Day"? A day for political education. What is it about? There are lectures... ... and we learn about texts
of the Great Leader. In addition there is instruction
on general knowledge, too. In other countries most people go
to public swimming pools on Saturdays. From Friday afternoon
until Sunday, right? Yes, on the weekend. How many visitors do you usually have
during the week? You mean not Saturday,
but during the week? About twenty thousand visitors. That many people? Really? We have to change the water very often
on days like that. Saturdays are good days for foreigners.
It is open for them on Saturdays. Our people come on all other days. On Saturdays foreigners
and natives are here together. On Saturdays they are here together?
-Yes. The colour and the design are very cute. Who designed it? Marshal Kim Jong Un supervised
the whole progress from the design to the completion. You can see
his attention to detail if you look closely at it. He reviewed everything many times.
Extensions are planned, too. The women here are all wearing swimsuits,
but not bikinis. Bikinis?
-Yes, the two-piece swimsuits. We are not allowed to wear bikinis. It doesn't fit to our customs. The enemies try to overthrow our country, the last remaining socialistic country, by using cultural influences
of their ideological strategies. We are protecting ourselves. That's why it isn't allowed
to wear bikinis here. What are you doing
at the moment? This is our planning software.
We've only finished one section by now. We are here. Here. The swimming pool is very big
and it has air conditioning inside. You surely need a lot of energy for it.
-That's right. What about the energy supply? This is the source
of the geothermal energy. There are six containers. The geothermal waters are driven
from the pump station. There are many machines underground. If we regulated the water temperature using conventional energy, we would need a lot more energy. As it's better for the environment,
we use geothermal energy here. The advantage of this method is
that the temperature is always constant. The geothermal temperature...
We've dug very deep. About 50 metres? Not that deep.
-Not that deep. The soldiers undertook a lot of effort
during construction. The Marshal visited us here very often. One day he was here at three o'clock
in the morning. Three in the morning? Yes, it was around two or three o'clock. My colleagues told me the next morning
that he had been here. Construction was going on everywhere
at the time, so it was very hot and dusty. Welding work was being done underground, and I wondered
why he was visiting such a place. The fact that he is active
day and night for the people, also while everybody else is sleeping, that made me cry. I was there at two o'clock the next day
and did a round. It's quieter during the night, because the soldiers need a rest. As I remembered
that the Marshal had been here, I was so proud of my workplace
and I decided to work even harder. Here, where you can feel
the love and care of the Marshal, people can enjoy a better cultural life. The Marshal makes it possible for us. I think I've found my place here.
When I look back at that time... It must be cooked in a large pot.
-What? Rice cake soup. Does it still have to cook?
-Yes, I think so. Mhmm, it smells of vinegar.
-Do you like that? Yes, I do. Leave it for now. We should have brought something. Oh no. You are our guests.
Why should a guest bring something? We are the hosts. I'm very pleased
you have come to meet us. Unfortunately,
we cannot travel to the South. Therefore I am happy
you are visiting us here in the North. Your character is a little bit masculine.
-Yes, I'm very active. Is your blood type 0?
-Yes, that's right. Mine, too.
-Ah, really? We are a little bit similar, aren't we?
-Yes, we are. We're both very tough. Don't you drink any alcohol?
-No, I can't drink much. Do I look like I can drink a lot? No, how could we know that? But you must like beer? Grandmother,
do you drink alcohol? Me neither. When I'm drunk I start dancing.
Then everybody runs away. Well, then let us drink
and dance together! To the successful shoot today!
-Cheers! Cheers!
-Cheers! I wanted to cook for you
with our local products. These are roasted mandu . When Grandma rants,
she becomes a tiger. She is kind-hearted,
but when she's ranting... When I was younger,
before the military service, I was really scared of her. But after the service I realized
that she is the best. She always worries a lot about us. Why does she rant? About anything and everything.
If something is going wrong. She worries about it and curses. She has also a very high voice,
and when she curses, I don't like her anymore. My nickname is Tiger.
They call me Tiger-Granny. I've raised the children
without their parents. I am their granny in fact,
but I have to replace the mother. Since I took responsibility for them,
I have to educate them well. You couldn't know if they would
turn into fools. How old were you
when you went to the military? I was 17 years old. At that age
one finishes middle school. At that time, we shouted "soldiers of reunification!"
and "we want reunification!" I thought that reunification
could be reached during my military service. My uncle said, "We wanted to reach reunification
during our military service too." "We weren't successful.
But you, you should succeed!" How long did you serve in the military?
-For seven years. I would have liked to continue, but they recommended me
to the Kim Il Sung University. You wanted to continue military service? Yes. He wanted to stay in the Army. But they recommended me
to the university. So I went. I was told that I should study
as long as I am young. As they kept recommending me,
I said yes. I thought if the military recommends me,
it must be right. My grandson is OK. He is not only good looking,
but also intelligent. I didn't know
you think of me like that. You didn't know that?
-No, because she always scolds me. I always wanted to
get compliments from her. When I shout, he always says to me:
"Say it normally!" Grandma, I think we have to cook
more rice for the film team. Yes.
-No, it's not necessary. But... What is your work? As you know, I wear a uniform. People in uniform
have special tasks. Therefore I cannot tell you what I do. I hope you understand. Do women join the military nowadays too? Yes. Now we have
the "military first policy". So the women serve in the Army, too. There are also many military areas
in which women can work. I am an officer, so I have to serve
in the Army for ten years. Older women also serve in the Army until the age of 55, depending on their jobs. Depending on their work, ten years or with no time restriction. I don't know what you do exactly, but do you work outside of military
service or is your work in the Army? My work is within the military. My work corresponds to my uniform
and its tasks. Do you participate in military exercises?
-Yes, I do. We do everything. For example? For example, combat training... ... marching, and then...
theories about tactics and warfare. What do you mean by combat training? It means... ... physical training
to make the body strong. You mean like Taekwondo?
-Yes, something like that. I can't imagine
you doing something like that. It was hard for me at the beginning,
but then... The time that I lived in the barracks
is over now for me. I'm an officer by now. Since I am an officer, I live at home. I live here with my family and go to work from here. I am now of marriageable age. And my military service
will be over soon. That's why I'm engaged, and after my military service, we will set the date for the marriage
with the family of my fiancé. And I will get married. So you've finished your service?
-Yes. How old are you?
-I'm 26 years old. So you started at the age of 16?
-Yes. I see. So the active duty, including your current work,
lasts ten years? Yes.
-And the active duty? Active duty lasted five years. How did you get to know your fiancé? I often visit my aunt,
the younger sister of my mother. She is like a mother to me
and she cares about me very much. And... I visit her very often. My future in-laws live
near her apartment block, and there were watching me closely. They told my aunt
about their interest in me, and said that their son and I
would make a good match. The Comrade had also
been watching me closely. So we met and got to know each other. We asked about him
in his apartment block. He is a student. And we also asked about him
at the university, and he had an unblemished reputation. That's why... ... I chose him as my partner. WITH THE HIGHEST SPIRIT
WE RIDE THE WAVE OF DEVELOPMENT WEAVING IS ART - KIM IL SUNG THE REVOLUTIONARY IDEOLOGY
GIVES US THE ULTIMATE VICTORY BATTLE OF THE PARTY IDEOLOGY
FIGHT TO DEFEND THE PARTY POLICY STEP ON HOME SOIL WITH YOUR FEET
AND LOOK AT THE WORLD SURPASS THE TOP,
EVEN HIGHER, EVEN FASTER! The hands higher.
Higher, higher. That's it. Put your hands in another position.
Your hands are not aligned. Smile wider! Smile wider! Turn around. The photo has to be good
for a good painting. More smile. Wider smile. How many days did you need
for this picture? Five or six days... ... including today. Five or six days including today. Korean speed? Power plant speed.
Slope speed. You are like a public official. You go to work from 9 am to 6 pm every
day, Monday to Saturday. What do you do...
-If I feel like painting? No, if you don't feel like painting.
-If I don't want to paint... I look at these books, for example. How can I only sit... I don't sit down if I don't feel like it. You need a clear mind for art. If I paint in spite of tiredness... If I paint in spite of tiredness... We artists aren't robots. One has to be well rested.
Then I get artistic inspiration. Sometimes, when I walk in the streets, I see beautiful women.
I immediately take a picture of them. If I have a good model I paint very fast. If I have an ugly model
I don't want to paint anymore. JUCHE ART Who is this woman?
She looks different. I've edited the picture. Originally it was this woman.
-Yes. I've decided on a prettier woman. And then edited it... Who is she? I saw her playing tennis one day. I thought that she also seems to have
a good personality. It is everyone's wish to look more beautiful in a picture. Both women and men, everyone wishes to have
their beautiful features highlighted. Concerning aesthetics,
why do you only illustrate beauty? There are nasty things and incompleteness
in the world, too. I don't like to paint nasty things. Everyone is different
and everyone has their preferences. I don't like to paint nasty things. My strength is being able to paint
beautiful women. Perhaps my art is something like
"beauty-ism". Look at that picture there. The woman in the middle is totally normal and ordinary. My team says she resembles me: Why haven't you beautified her? Mrs Cho, she is uglier than you. If she had been painted beautifully, too, the focus wouldn't be on the beauty
on the right side anymore. I thought about
whether to paint her beautifully too, so our people would like her as well. Then I thought, no, otherwise
the main character will lose her meaning. So I painted the woman
unembellished, just as she is. Last time the cameraman also said
that she resembles you. No, she is not as pretty as you... THERE IS NOTHING IN THE WORLD
TO BE ENVIOUS OF Let us learn Learn, learn! For our country Time goes by in a rush So do not look back Let us take care With the precious moments Good morning, class!
-Good morning, Sir! I'm Miss, I'm not Sir! You say "Sir" to a male teacher,
"Miss" to a female teacher. Let's try that again: Morning, class! Morning, Miss! Good, very good. Sit down.
How are you? Did you learn all of that? Where did we get to last hour?
-To chapter 16. Chapter 16. Ah, we heard the number 16.
Did you learn the number 16? OK, then... ... what was your homework?
-To learn the text. Are you ready?
-Yes! Who learned it best? Who would like to volunteer? What is your name? Faster now. Ready... ... go! You're much too fast!
I can't count that fast. There are many things in the classroom
that we can count 1, 2, 3. Right?
- Yes! Walk around with your Comrades, and explain how many things you see.
Do you understand? Everyone stand up. Take a look around and say in English
all the things you see. THE TASK OF THE PUPILS IS:
1. LEARN, 2. LEARN (KIM JONG IL) Now I'm going to sing
an interesting song. Would you like to sing?
-Yes! The school building is new and clean. When was the building constructed? Please tell me
the history of this school. The Pyongyang International Soccer School
was founded by our revered Marshal Kim Jong Un. It shows his love
for the young generation and his vision of our land
as a strong sporting nation. Our Pyongyang International Soccer School was opened on May 31st, 2013. Then, on June 1st, 130 students started school in order to pursue their talents. As the name
International Soccer School implies, here they don't only train soccer, there's a normal school curriculum
as well. They practice soccer and study normal subjects. Meanwhile, we have 160 talents here at the school. Open the door! They are just coming back
from practice. So... hello!
-Hello! Where is student Kyung Bum?
Please say "yes" louder. May we have a look at the room? Quiet please! We are doing interviews. Please stand comfortably.
You can stand or sit down. According to the age, the younger students
have bunk beds, so they can jump and play. But if they want to learn later...
Stand up. This also shows the love of the Leader
for the young talents. You've never seen anything
like this before. You can fold it out. For student who is learning... ... and here... ... for student who is singing. Stand up! Wrestling!
Student who is wrestling. The students can organize
their leisure time freely this way after school. It is late already, but the teacher for
Korean language is in the room. What are you doing here? The students wanted to sing with me.
So I brought my keyboard. Beloved mother While you raised me We have only one wish In our heart That the Leader will call us The honour of the fatherland is shining And I will become the hero of the land And the people are blessing me The children like to sing songs
about the General and our Leader. I didn't tell them
what we should sing today. The songs are about the Mother, the Party
and the revered Marshal. Especially the last song was
about the deceased General Kim Jong II. It's deep in the hearts
of the children. The beloved Leader Kim Il Sung,
the revered General Kim Jong Il and the revered Marshal
loved the children. The children
have never seen them personally, but they know them from television. They feel their love
and want to give it back. Sometimes they are so touched
that they cry. How many classes are there
in one school year? One class per school year. Until which school year? Well... it goes until
the second school year of middle school. Up to 12 years. Children aged twelve are the oldest?
-Yes. They are very tall! As they get better food than at home
and they eat a lot of meat. I am rather small,
so for me they seem to be even taller. Don't they get homesick? They are doing fine here.
They even get snacks. Here they have snacks and television.
So nobody really wants to go back home. The parents visit the children here,
because they miss them. The students are coming back from dinner. Have you had a good meal?
What did you eat? Tell me, I really want to know. Chicken drumsticks,
grasshopper patty! What else? Eggs.
-Eggs. You eat eggs every day. Chicken drumsticks, too, right?
-Yes. -What else? Herring.
-Herring. You ate fish today? What do you like most?
-Fish. Where are the others?
They still haven't finished their dinner? They eat so much
because it's so tasty! What do you mean? They've already eaten their portion,
but they are eating more. They have a healthy appetite,
because they are growing. Youngor ?
-English. Yeongoro ?
-In English. Very good. Uija?
-Chair. Chilpan ?
-Blackboard. Yeolda ?
-Open. Datda ?
-Close. Cheongsohada ?
-Clean. About 70 km south of Pyongyang
is our next destination, the farmer collective Migok,
comprised of 800 households. The landscape is overwhelming. The unspoiled mountains and rivers
recall the images of my childhood, long disappeared in the South. The unspoiled landscape, the oxen in the fields, the dusty country roads. It warms my heart and fills me
with melancholy at the same time. THE AGRICULTURAL FRONT IS THE SOLUTION
OF THE PROBLEMS OF THE PEOPLE LEAD THE WORLD
WITH KOREAN SPEED! Comrades Kotbuni!
-Yes! Comrades Kotbuni!
-Yes! Hold your hands together. Two at a time,
hold your hands together! Put your hands
on each other's shoulders. Put your hands
on each other's shoulders. Hold your hands like bunny ears.
Then jump like rabbits do. Let's start! Win, win, win, our player!
Our player is winning! Win, win, win, our player!
Our player is winning! Please form a line. Turn around. Lift both shoulders. Twinkle, twinkle. Jump. We say "good morning" To the esteemed Leader Kim Il Sung Imitate me. Pure happiness, pure joy
The sound of our country Marshal Kim Jong Un!
We thank you Marshal Kim Jong Un!
We thank you While singing and also while dancing We are longing for you
Marshal Kim Jong Un I tap on the flower buds
My esteemed Marshal Kim Jong Un My esteemed Marshal Kim Jong Un
We are longing for you ACCORDING TO THE GENERAL
10 MILLION RI Can I ask you something?
-Yes. How did you become a tractor driver? I saw the farmers
during my military service, and I became a tractor driver
to better serve the Leader. They called it a harvesting battle. I thought that the whole collective
would be here for work. But I can only see one machine. We are working with this machine. We could accomplish much less without it. We can accomplish
three to four times more with this machine. The collective workers must help out
during loading and haying. The great Leader Kim II Sung visited us
in the seventies. The former director in charge told him that the farmers want to live longer, because life has become so wonderful. The Leader was very pleased to hear this,
and asked again. "They want to live longer,
because life has become so wonderful." The work is performed by the machines. Life under the reign
of the Workers' Party is so good that the workers want to live longer. The Leader was so pleased
and ordered to use machines. He came here many times. In which other country
does the Leader come to a field? Nowhere. But the Leader cannot come everywhere,
can he? This is the business method
of the Leader. You must be aware of everything! He creates single examples,
which then function as models. All over the country, these models
are copied. That's what happens. In the west, east, north and in the
centre, there are model collectives, which serve as examples. These are the models for others. Ah, I see.
-Do you understand? How is the harvest distributed? Does everyone receive the same amount,
or does it differ? Someone working more receives more,
someone working less receives less. It goes by how much you work. In socialism, a person who doesn't work
should not think he can eat. We work together, and it is distributed
according to achievement. Justly. Everyone received approximately
one ton of rice last year. Someone who got more received 1.5 tons.
I mean per person. A household with four workers
got 4.5 to 5 tons of rice. This family worked hard
to fill the granary of the state, and in the process, their own granary
will be filled too. What do people do
who have received too much? Patriotic rice. What does that mean? Please explain.
It doesn't exist elsewhere. Patriotic rice means:
The collective workers say, How can I eat
1-2 tons of rice in one year? The farmers donate
because of their love for the fatherland: "Our family
will donate 200 kg or 300 kg." "We need only 400 kg for the whole year." "There's enough left over, we have enough rice even after the dowry
of the daughter or son." "We donate the surplus to the state." "Our family wants to donate that much." How is it possible that you think
of the state first and then of yourself? That's very special. We say, if the bowl shines, then the contents look tasty too. That's our view.
If the state is rich and strong, then the individuals
have a good life, too. The stronger the state is, the less likely it is
that the imperialists will attack us. We can lead a carefree life
only if the state is strong. What's that? We charge solar energy with it
and use it for lighting and television. We used to produce energy
with the wind power plant, but there is too little wind
in the summer. So we bought this. Now we use the saved solar energy
for television and lighting at home. The panel is not that large.
Is it sufficient? Yes. The storage battery
does not have to be charged every day. If the storage battery is charged
for one day, it is sufficient for 15 days. We charge the storage battery
once a week. What do you use for cooking? We heat the rooms by cooking with straw in winter. And in summer
we cook with methane gas. If we have to heat more, we heat with specially formed coal
which has holes in it. Can I have a look
at the methane installation? -Yes. This is the methane installation. It is operated with the excrement of
humans and animals like pigs and cows. A mixture of gases emerges,
which is methane gas. The percentage of human excrement
is about 70 to 80 percent. They are the excrements of the family? If that is not enough,
we go to the city. There are collection points.
We bring it here and use it at home. What is that?
-That's fertilizer. It is the pile where we throw
pig dung, for example, and the waste products not used
in the methane production. We use it as fertilizer on the fields
after the harvest. We produce fertilizer and receive money from the collective. The collective cannot produce fertilizer,
so all the households produce it. Well, we have enough animal dung
from rabbits and pigs. We also own rabbits and a chicken. I will buy a pig
in November or December. We have leftovers of Chinese cabbage after making Kimchi for winter. Can you show me the rabbits? They are in the house.
-In the room? The cage is in the house,
next to the kitchen and the storeroom. Can we go in so can you show me?
-Yes. Through the support of the General, we designed the house this way,
so we can feed the rabbits inside. Since the rabbits
are close to many people, they cannot starve to death. That's the reason why we have
the rabbit hutch in the house. We have three rabbits. It just had babies. By breeding them at home,
we produce our own meat. And on holidays,
or if the children want to eat meat, we butcher the rabbits. This works like a fireplace. The gas runs through this pipe. When we cook we switch it on, and after using it we switch it off. If we cook in the winter, we heat the room with it
at the same time. You can open the floor here. You can heat with straw here, and cook with it. And the room is heated
at the same time. And you can sleep warmly
on the heated floor at nighttime. So... the straw is distributed after the harvest. We cook with it and heat with it
in the winter. Will you show me the other rooms too? This is both bedroom
and living room. Everything happens in this room.
We watch television here. We eat and sleep here too. We eat here in this room in winter. It is too cold in the kitchen. But it's warm in here.
We set up the table here and eat. Should I turn on the television? This is a transformer. The voltage is too weak, but the television
needs a certain voltage. So we can increase the voltage
with this. And the voltage increases. If we used the energy directly
without this equipment, and if there are for example
no welding works outside, the line voltage will increase, and the television could catch fire. So you have to connect the transformer to avoid a risk of fire. If we have power we watch colour TV, and if not we watch black and white using solar energy. What are you cooking? Peppers. The Lion pepper?
-Yes. What are you putting in it?
-Chili paste. Ah, chili paste. Your parents were farmers too?
How did you become a farmer? My husband is a farmer,
and I followed him. How did you get to know your husband? He performed his military service
where I lived, and it was love at first sight... What did you like about him when you were falling in love? How can I put it... He was able to do everything. He could drive a tractor very well.
His will is very strong. He was able to do anything
that a man can do, so... What do you wish for your children? My daughter wants to become a teacher. My son wants to go to the Army.
His dream is to wear a big star. I don't know
if he will manage to become an officer. Why not? If not, he should follow in the footsteps
of his father and drive a tractor. What was your dream? My dream? To be on stage
and sing as much as I like. THE GREAT COMRADES KIM IL SUNG
AND KIM JONG IL ARE FOREVER AND ALWAYS WITH US. We greet
the workers of the collective. We will now begin with the concert. The love for my esteemed one
Flows into our heart Day and night
His breath warms us His virtue and his will attract us
We will follow him our whole life We cannot live without you
Comrade Kim Jong Un There is no life without you
We cannot live My destiny
Comrade Kim Jong Un We cannot live without you We cannot live without you
Comrade Kim Jong Un There is no life without you
We cannot live Our destiny, comrade Kim Jong Un
We cannot live without you We cannot live without you Five hours of driving to the east
for around 200 kilometres of highway. People at the side of the road, waiting. But for what? Our next destination Wonsan,
capital of the Province Kangwon, is a harbour city on the east coast situated on a beautiful bay. With a population of around 330,000,
it is the country's sixth-largest city. THE YEAR OF SUBLIME BATTLE GLORIOUS VICTORY FOR
THE MILITARY FIRST POLICY Compared to Pyongyang,
the city is less grand, but it seems more authentic. Here you realize that the model city
Pyongyang, with its glamourous buildings, is the absolute exception in the country. HURRAH FOR THE GLORIOUS COMRADE
KIM JONG IL COMRADE, ARE YOU ALREADY RIDING
THE HORSE OF THE REVOLUTION? TO THE PEAK OF THE POWERFUL STATE!
ONWARD WITH THE TOTAL STORM! Today's topic is: "Let us live as
revolutionary riders" Last August, our esteemed Marshal
praised our soldiers, who worked on the construction site
of the Kim Chak University: "I am proud of you. You are the pride
of the party and the nation." "You are the riders of the revolution
who advance our country." The Marshal spoke of them in high terms. The vanguard
of the revolution riders asked us: "Comrades, are you already riding
on the horse of the revolution?" Only if we all ride
on the horse of the revolution, like the soldiers
on the construction site, will we be able to continue building
the legend of our fatherland. Be proud of yourself,
riders of the revolution! We young people will also live
as riders of the revolution. We will now sing
"The youth of our fathers and mothers". When my father was young
He had a good time With his tiller in the Gangsung river He built a well in snowy December This glorious worker Was my father Our target for today is 150 pieces. We also want to give pleasure
to our Marshal with our success. Let us make the glorious day. Let us begin with work! PRODUCTION, LEARNING AND LIVING LIKE DURING THE TIME
OF THE ANTI-JAPANESE GUERILLA ARMY! An overseas Korean in Japan
named Kim In Kwon donated this factory. He wanted to devote himself
to the welfare of the country. The great General
Comrade Kim Jong Il completed construction of the factory
in 1992. We started production in 1993. How many workers work here? About 400. What is a workday for them like? They arrive here by 7.30 am.
We start at 8 am. The lunch break is from 12 to 2 pm. They finish at 6 pm. But we do gymnastics after that.
Sometimes we work until 7 pm. Mostly they go home at 7.30 pm. They always try diligently to reach the given daily target. What kind of clothes
do you produce here? They are clothes produced for export. In our factory we also produce clothes
for our people, but sometimes also for export. Where do you export to? We export via China at the moment. Because of the economic sanctions
we export via China to countries like the US, Canada... and other countries. It would be nice
if you could export directly. Yes, that would be nice. If international economic sanctions
were lifted, it would get even better. For how long have you been exporting
via China? For five years. Don't you have requests from South Korea? There are people
in charge of foreign trade. Of course we would like that. But for various reasons,
the path is blocked, so it has stopped. When is it the most difficult? We have problems
with the delivery of materials. We are not dependent
on foreign suppliers. We also use products
which are produced domestically. So we don't have real problems. Actually, on the label it should say:
"Made in Korea". If the economic sanctions
were removed, then we could do that perhaps. "September competition table,
sewing group 7", what's that? Every day we record
how much the comrades of group seven have produced in September. They get scores for their daily output
and good deeds. For example if you are helping someone. Or if someone is coming in early,
in order to clean, or if someone is taking care of
ill comrades by bringing them hot water,
then they get bonus points. The scores have an influence on the wage?
-Yes. Who is in first place? Gum Hyang is in first place. Other comrades were good,
but apparently she was the best. Then I have to congratulate Gum Hyang. LET US GO FORWARD WITH A SMILE
EVEN IF THE PATH IS HARD You have done a good job today. It was a new product. Nevertheless, you have understood it fast
and performed well. Comrade Ri Gum Hyang.
Please stand up. Comrade Park Ye Soon,
comrade Park Kyong Ok. These three have performed
more than anybody else. Applause, please! Comrade Hong and comrade Hwang haven't quite understood
the process today, so they have caused a bit of chaos. I hope that you don't become discouraged,
but dare to do more. You must understand the production
better, and must avoid mistakes. We managed to produce
our daily target of 150 pieces. From now on
we have to produce 200 pieces. We can fulfill our national economic plan
only in this way. I hope that from now on
you make more of an effort. You didn't push yourself enough today. I want to repeat,
push yourself more next time and do your best tomorrow. If you have questions or suggestions,
now is your chance. No, we don't have any.
-No? No? You had a lot of work today. Please rest tomorrow. We'll call it a day now.
You've worked hard today. Thank you, you too. The sea is great.
It reminds me of my hometown Busan. Were you born in Wonsan and grew up here?
-Yes. Wonsan is my home. Your parents, too?
-Yes. I've heard that you like to play soccer. Yes, I played soccer in school, and after graduation,
for example at sports festivals. I've heard that you even wanted to become
a professional. Why didn't you? Yes, I wanted to become a professional,
but then I preferred to master the basics a woman should know.
For example sewing and cooking. I wanted to learn these basics. That's why I came to this textile factory
to become a decent woman. Did you make your decision yourself?
-Yes. After school we're sent
where we want to go. We can choose our profession on our own.
Oh, please be careful! We cover it with a canvas in summer
to have shade. Ah, I see. Ah, that hurts. You went to primary school...
-For four years. I went to middle school for six years.
Then I started working at this factory. How old were you? I was 18 years old
after the high school diploma. How long have you been working?
-Four years. Do you want to work somewhere else
or do you want to work here longer? Yes, I love my profession. I want to continue to sew clothes. If the people wear the clothes
which I've sewn, it makes me happy. Should we sit down? Ah, nice. How are people chosen for the work
in the factory? Is there an exam? An entrance exam doesn't exist. If I want to work in the factory,
the employment office gives me the job. The manager told me that the workers are paid on merit. Are there big differences?
-No, the differences are not that big. Of course everyone works. It's not that some people work
and others don't. The differences are really small. In which form are you paid? Is it money or do you receive food stamps? In addition to our monthly pay,
we receive food stamps. We receive 14 kilos of food every month. Additionally, we receive our wage. The food is not distributed
according to effort, but rather on
how much one needs for living. We receive our wage
in addition to the food. The payment depends
on how much you work. Are there things
that you really want to do? What do you mean...
-Is there something you want to achieve in your life? In my current situation? Yes, in my current situation
I want to be successful. What does "being successful"
mean to you? I don't want to climb the career ladder, but develop my abilities
and make special clothes. Special clothes which others don't make. If I saw our people wear my clothes,
that would be a big joy. That's what I want. What is the name of this profession? We call it "designer".
-What does it mean? A designer designs clothes
and a tailor makes patterns. A tailor? No. He sews clothes. Ah, we say fabricator. So you want to become a fabricator? I want to create the clothes
and sew them myself. Everything. I can only sew at the moment.
But I want to learn it in any case. Koreans like working together, eating together, sitting together,
going to the amusement park together, and having fun together.
Do you sometimes have time for yourself? Yes, of course I am alone at home,
without my friends. Do you want to be alone sometimes? It is nice to do something together.
You get lonely when you're alone. If one is together with people
one can share the joy. It is better to laugh together. Perhaps the geezers like to be alone. Have you ever been to Pyongyang?
-It is the capital of Korea. Of course
I would like to travel there. If I work a lot,
I will receive a ticket. Sometimes there are excursions
to Pyongyang. If you work diligently,
you will be recommended. We commemorate anti-Japanese
revolutionary hero, Comrade Kim Jong Suk. A minute's silence. We salute the deceased with all respect. Since the 1930s, my father fought at the side of our Great Leader for independence from Japan. Here you can see that he was the commander in the sector
of the army of Jang Paek Hyun at the border with China. He participated
in the revolution in 1936. On March 10th, 1945, 150 days
before the liberation from Japan, he was sentenced to death
in Sodaemun Jail in Seoul and hanged. He was imprisoned for eight years
and then executed. I guess the body of our father lies in a communal cemetery in Seoul. I hope the reunification will come fast, so that I can bring back
the body of my father. It's a great pity
that reunification takes so long. But as he fought for the people in the anti-Japanese resistance and sacrificed his life, the Great Leader erected this memorial stone for him. We want to bring his body here
when we are reunited. Please help this dream to come true.
Please do your best. I will do my best. After the liberation, the Great Leader Kim Il Sung brought all the family members
of his comrades together. He brought all children
to the Mangyongdae Revolution School. My sister and I grew up there. I got this apartment for free too. The state provides us with enough food, and with the things we need. Nothing was lacking. I belong to the second generation. Almost everybody
from the first generation has died. It is my duty
to educate the next generation well. A strict system of work, beliefs and life
has to be established through the generations
for our country to be strong. I watched a movie on TV. A soldier walked along the tracks and saw
that the overhead wire was broken. A cable was lying on the tracks,
emitting sparks. And what did he do? He took the cable,
rolled it around himself and jumped off the tracks. He was killed,
but averted the danger from the train. I thought I would be proud
if he were my grandson. If he gave his life for his people
and the Leader and became a revolutionary hero. I was very envious. How nice it would be
if the hero were my grandson. Ju Hyok, does the younger generation
think about reunification? Yes, we think about reunification, also in terms of economic
development possibilities. I think that economic possibilities
would be very high. But firstly, the Leader and the General think of reunification
very often too. If we, the younger generation,
don't achieve reunification, then we can't realize
the legacy of our Leader. We would feel very sorry. I guess we would also have
many problems after reunification. But if we, the people, feel as one, we will overcome the problems. We have the same blood, the same
skin colour and the same customs. Since we are one people by nature,
we won't feel like strangers if we meet each other
after reunification. I guess I would be happier to meet Koreans from the South
than the neighbours on our block. I was so happy because you come from the South. Since it is so difficult to see you, it
was it was a great pleasure to meet you. Let us meet again after reunification. Reunification must come very soon.
-Let us meet again. Please come back. Look for me.
