In primary school,
we were taught that all missionaries
were terrorists. They told us that a missionary
will be nice to you at first, but when they get you
into their homes, then they will kill you  and eat your liver. There was no food and
no work in my village. Like some others,
I snuck across  the mountain border
into China. I picked mushrooms in
the hopes of selling them  in the Changbai. I don't speak
Chinese at all. But in the mountains,
I met a man. He said, "I can
sell those for you." And he didn't cheat me. He gave me all the
money from the sale. At that time, I didn't know
he was Pastor Han. Over the next two years,
I went back several times. Each time,
Pastor Han helped me. One day, I asked why
he would do this, for he himself was
in great danger  for assisting a North Korean. "It is because I am
a Christian," he said. That made me afraid. Was he going to eat my liver? One day, Pastor Han
said to me, "God is real. There is hope
for every person." I could not believe he
would say that word: "God." Nobody says that word. We know it is
an act of treason. To speak the name of God can lead to soldiers
coming in the night. There will be no trial. No journalists will
write about you and no one will ever dare
ask where you have gone. One day, I asked
Pastor Han for a Bible. He knew that if I was
caught with a Bible, my life would be in danger, but over time,
I persuaded him. I showed the Bible to my wife. At first, she refused
to even look at it. "Why would you bring
that here?" she cried. She knew that if anyone
reported that you had even glanced at a Bible, you would be arrested. And not just you... You and all your relatives, sent to the concentration
camps for years  and years and years. Over time, my wife, too,
learned that God is real. She found hope. And then I shared the Word
of God with my best friend. It was very dangerous
for me to share. It was very dangerous
for him to listen. One day, in the
summer of 2016, we heard that some
North Korean assassins  were being honored
by the government, rewarded for their good work for killing a terrorist
missionary in Changbai. We knew it was Pastor Han. Who else could it be? We were frightened. Did they know he
was my friend? Did they know I had met
with him many times? Pastor Han gave his life, but he gave hope to me and
to many other North Koreans. And despite the
ever present danger, many of us will continue
to share the message that God is real. We hope that our sacrifice, when the day comes,
will be worthwhile, just like it was
for Pastor Han.
