The Korean War is still the world's 
longest-running conflict. Though the   fighting ended through a ceasefire in the summer 
of 1953, the warring nations never reached a true   peace treaty. Because of that, North Korea still 
officially remains at war. While many might assume   that the South Korean government is the number 
one enemy of North Korea, the North Koreans have   a lot of beef with other countries as well.
The beef between North Korea and Japan goes   back all the way to the Korean War. During 
this time, though Japan did not send combat   troops to the peninsula, the country did 
serve as the main logistics base for the   US and other allied forces. Understandably, 
North Korea was not too happy about this.  Straining relations even further with Japan 
was the fact that North Korean agents would   routinely go into the country to kidnap Japanese 
citizens. Even worse than having its own citizens   kidnapped from their homes is the constant 
threat posed by North Korea’s ballistic   missiles tests and nuclear weapons programs.
These two weapons programs put the safety of   all of East Asia at risk. Japan simply seeks to 
remain a peaceful nation especially since after   the end of World War Two the Japanese vowed 
to never go to war again. But the North Korean   government does not care about sacred vows, state 
sovereignty, or who cares about their provocative   acts. All they care about is regime survival.
But in a situation where North Korea finally   crosses the line with Japan, say threatening them 
with nuclear weapons or kidnapping the President,   and Japan was to go to war with them, 
who would win in such a conflict?  Let’s first take a look at what Japan would be 
facing in an all-out conflict with North Korea.  The North Korean military is quite a force 
to be reckoned with despite coming from such   a small nation with few natural resources. The 
military is known as the Korean People’s Army   and is made up of five branches: the 
Ground Force, Air Force, Navy, Strategic   Missile Force, and Special Operations Force.
Their Ground Force, or army, is one of the largest   in the world coming in at over 950,000 active-duty 
personnel. Military service is compulsory in North   Korea meaning every able-bodied man must serve 
for ten years and women for seven. Those that   go to college have to serve less.
Because of this mandatory service,   there are millions of trained soldiers in what 
is called Worker-Peasant Red Guard units. These   units are compulsory for teenagers before they 
enter the military and for veterans once they are   discharged. They take on a role much similar to 
the US National Guard in that they receive annual   training and assist the military when necessary.
The equipment that the army fields is vast and   most of it was manufactured in the 1950s through 
the 1970s as either Chinese or Soviet in origin,   with some licenses being granted to produce 
local copies of this equipment. For instance,   most North Korean infantrymen are armed 
with aging AK-47 rifles and while the North   Korean government claims there has been 
significant progress in creating a modern   and wholly North Korean battle rifle there 
have been little public indications of such.  The army also possesses thousands of tanks but 
most of these are outdated Soviet technology. One   of their main tanks, the T-54/55 and the T-62, is 
decades old and nowhere comparable to the designs   of modern tanks. These same tanks were fielded 
by the Iraqi government during both the Gulf   War and 2003 invasion of Iraq and were totally 
annihilated against modern tanks and artillery.  The North Koreans have realized their tank 
deficiency and have started a modernization   program to create domestic tanks based on 
the T-72 design known as the Ch'ŏnma-ho and   P'okp'ung-ho. These modern revamps of 
old designs include new features like   reactive armor that explodes outwards when 
hit and new turrets for grenade launchers   as well as improved fire control systems.
The North Korean army also relies heavily on   its vast array of artillery pieces. They possess 
thousands of guns in various calibers and they   love their big guns. That is because the smallest 
caliber artillery piece is a 122mm gun with their   biggest guns being the massive 170mm guns that 
are said to reach almost a range of 40 miles.   It is said that whenever the army engages 
in combat the North Koreans want to lay down   a “sea of fire” to support their infantry which 
means employing them in a classic World War Two   style artillery bombardment which defers from the 
precision fires of most of today’s militaries.  The North Korean air force operates almost 800 
aircraft spread across various bases with most   of the best fighter jets being concentrated in 
the south towards the DMZ. Their aircraft fleet   is primarily Soviet technology with their most 
capable air-to-air fighters being the MiG-29   and MiG-30 fighter aircraft. They also possess 
potent and combat-tested air-to-ground attack   aircraft like Su-25. The Su-25 was first 
designed in 1978 and has proven itself on   multiple battlefields around the world including 
the most recent Russian air campaign over Syria.  Despite their vast fleet, the North Korean air 
force does not compare at all to the modern   equipment offered by other militaries around 
the world. That is why if the country was   ever attacked the main strategy for the 
North is to use its vast array of RADARs   and Surface to Air Missile sites to take down 
opposing aircraft before they become a threat.  The North Korean navy is the smallest of the five 
branches coming in at less than 80,000 active-duty   personnel. They operate in two main fleets, 
the West coast fleet, and the East Coast fleet.   The kind of vessels they operate are 
primarily small patrol craft and frigates   for their surface fleet. This is what is known as 
a brown water navy meaning the ships are designed   and operate best close to shore and cannot project 
power beyond the relative safety of the shore.  Where the North Korean navy really 
stands out is in its fleet of submarines.   Operating a force of around 72 submarines, it is 
one of the largest submarine forces in the world.   Though these submarines are aging, ex-Soviet 
technology, they are deadly quiet since they   operate diesel engines. Diesel engines are 
quieter than nuclear-powered submarines   though they do have to expose themselves 
to the surface to recharge their batteries.  Once underwater, they are virtually impossible 
to detect meaning any surface ships are in great   danger. Their ability to operate effectively 
and secretly was demonstrated with deadly   effect in 2010 when a North Korean submarine sunk 
a South Korean warship with the loss of 46 lives.  Of course, the most capable and threatening 
part of the North Korean military would be   its ballistic missiles and nuclear weapons. 
These long-range weapons are the pride and joy   of the North Korean government. They are meant 
to project power abroad and Western military   thinkers believe the North Koreans intend to 
use these weapons as a last resort in case   of the catastrophic defeat of the military 
or potentially as a crippling first strike.  Though Japan is out of range of most of the North 
Korean medium-range ballistic missile threats,   there are still over 50 missiles that 
could be fired at them. In addition,   North Korea is believed to now have 
manufactured over 40 nuclear weapons,   though the debate is still out there concerning 
their ability to miniaturize them enough to place   them on the warhead of one of these missiles.
Facing the North Korean military would be   mighty forces of the Japanese Defense Forces 
as their military is known. Ranked as the fifth   most powerful military in the world, this 
small yet technologically superior military   is composed of an Army, Air Force, and Navy.
The Japanese Army is a feared and much-respected   force around the world. Coming in 
at a little over 150,000 personnel,   it is the largest branch of the Japanese military. 
The Army fields some of Asia's most modern and   best equipment like their next-generation Type 10 
main battle tank that is equipped with state of   the art armor and gives the crew a full panoramic 
view of their surroundings. This tank will   eventually replace the older but still capable 
Type 90 tank used in service since the 1990s.  The Japanese also have a robust, home-grown 
defense industry that is constantly creating new   and improved weapons for its forces such as the 
Type 89 assault rifle which is the standard issue   rifle for its ground troops. The Japanese also 
produce a variety of potent anti-aircraft guns   and armored troop transports all modeled off the 
US and NATO-style designs to better work together.  The Japanese Navy is incredibly deadly 
as well. They operate a fleet of over 250   ships making their navy the fourth largest in 
the world by tonnage. These ships encompass a   wide variety of platforms to include coastal 
patrol craft and minesweepers for homeland   defense as well as 26 destroyers and several 
helicopter carriers to project power abroad.  The Japanese navy is also a great asset in 
defeating the North Korean missile threat.   Their destroyers are based on the US 
Aegis system. Aegis is the world's leading   ballistic missile defense system, combining a 
series of high-powered RADARs, illuminators,   and computer programs to accurately detect missile 
threats early and defeat them well before they hit   their intended targets. The fact that the 
Japanese can deploy over two dozen of these   ships in such a small area like the Sea of Japan 
helps nullify the threat to the Japanese homeland.  The Air Force also works hand-in-hand with 
the Navy to defeat North Korean missiles.   The Air Force operates a robust network of RADAR 
sites and manned observation posts all throughout   the archipelago. These sites are crucial in 
detecting missiles as soon as they launch   and then forwarding that information to deployed 
ships and missile batteries stationed at home.  In addition to their anti-air capabilities, the 
Japanese operate one of the most technologically   advanced air fleets in the world. They 
boast almost 800 aircraft of which over   300 are fourth and fifth-generation 
fighter aircraft like the F-15 and F-35   Joint Strike Fighter. They also operate several 
electronic warfare platforms such as the E-767,   which give the air force an early warning for 
airborne threats and can help pass information   more quickly and securely than the North 
Koreans who do not possess such a capability.  In determining who would win in an 
all-out war between North Korea and Japan,   it would depend on where it was fought. The most 
likely scenario would be an invasion of North   Korea by Japan since the North Korean navy simply 
cannot conduct large scale amphibious operations   on foreign shores. The Japanese do have such a 
capability in their newly created marine brigade,   designed as a quick reaction force to defend its 
far-flung islands, but this of course would have   to be scaled up if they wanted to invade an 
entire country and not just a small island.  But suppose the Japanese were able to scale their 
amphibious operations and get their entire army   ashore. Once there, they would be facing an army 
almost ten times their size! Not to mention the   millions in reserves that can be brought up. The 
only advantage here would be that North Korea   deploys much of its forces in fixed positions 
along the DMZ with South Korea. A well-planned   amphibious assault behind all of these defenses 
might just give Japan the edge it needs to negate   the obvious advantage in North Korean numbers.
Of course, Japan also has the advantage as the   technologically superior force. Their anti-missile 
systems would surely protect the homeland and   invasion force from North Korean fire. Their 
tanks, planes, and even infantry weapons are   also superior. However, as seen on battlefields of 
the past like the Eastern Front in World War Two   even small numbers of vastly superior equipment 
will eventually be overcome by sheer numbers. The last factor to consider is the individual 
soldiers themselves. In Japan, the military is a   100 percent volunteer force while in North Korea 
the military is forced onto everybody. Once in,   service in North Korea is marked by brutality from 
superiors and a chronic lack of food and supplies.   In fact, it is not uncommon for completely 
healthy young men to be left so weak and   hungry after basic training that their 
parents have to pick them up and nurse   them back to health before rejoining the army.
The North Korean military also hands out brutal   punishments to its soldiers. Beatings 
and rape are common in their formations   with fear being the primary motivating 
factor getting soldiers through the day.   Compare that to the professional Japanese 
military that treats all its soldiers with respect   and one can reasonably expect that once North 
Koreans see just how better their lives might be,   many would simply give up 
and switch to the other side.  All things considered, a war between North Korea 
and Japan would be brutal and a close call.   North Korea simply has a massive amount of people 
and equipment to overcome while fighting on their   home territory. The Japanese face the difficulty 
of fighting a campaign away from their shores   and in replacing losses of people and material 
quickly as casualties mount. If Japan could   conduct a swift and lightning-fast campaign 
that bypasses most of the fixed North Korean   positions they could win a stunning victory. But 
if the Japanese lose the element of surprise the   favor is pointed towards the North Koreans who 
can mobilize an entire nation prepared for war.
