(upbeat music) - Yeonmi Park is a very
courageous human rights activist. Her story of her escape
from North Korea to America via China and South Korea is nothing short of amazing
and deeply harrowing. She's experienced the
worst totalitarian system that you could ever imagine. It would have to be the worst
in the world today, I think. As well as violence at
the hands of individuals whilst she fell into human
trafficking, slavery in China. Yeonmi has written
graphically and movingly about all of this in her autobiography, "In Order to Live: A North Korean Girl's Journey to Freedom." Last year, she graduated
from the Ivy league Columbia University in New York City. And that's not covered in the book but we will ask her something of her impressions about that time. So, I think from this conversation I hope we can cover some
really important areas. Insights into the nature
of Marxism, of North Korea, indeed of Chinese society,
but also the West. And some of the dangers confronting us when perhaps we've just been
too comfortable for too long. Cherished freedoms are not as secure as we might like to think. So Yeonmi, can I ask you at the beginning, why did you write this
quite remarkable book? Because there must've been a part of you that thought this will be dangerous. It'll be hurtful. Let's just forget about it. You've obviously had a
higher purpose in mind. Why did you write it? - Thank you for having me first of all. And I'm so honoured to have
this conversation with you. When I was writing that book that was actually right after
when Sony Studio got hacked for making the movie
called "The Interview." I don't know if you remember,
they made a satire movie of actually assassinating Kim Jong-un. And North Korea revenged them
by hacking the Sony Studio. So they really tried everything they could to stop people publishing
anything bad about he regime. And of course, when it came
to my time, like you said, I really thought that
Penguin was threatened by North Korean regime directly. They threatened to blow
up Penguin as well. So, my publisher, I really thought I
couldn't write the book. Because I spoke out right
before writing the book, actually three generations
of my family got punished who I left back in North Korea. And the reason why I had to do it is that when I came out
to the rest of the world, I couldn't believe that
most people did not know about what was happening
to North Korean people. All they knew was the funny haircut that Kim Jong-un has. Like how ridiculous the
North Korean people cry when their leader dies. Even North Koreans are
so dehumanised by media, nobody had any clue what
was happening to my people, what I went through. So, I wanted to let the world know what was happening to 25
millions of human lives in the darkest place on earth right now? - Well, it's a remarkably easy read. And for all of that incredibly
harrowing and informative, let's drill into some of the things that are really startling. Now, I'm a farmer and
I've always been involved in farm policy. Before I ask this question, it
may stagger people to realise that for the last 10
years, just as an example, the world's farmers have
produced enough food for 10 billion people to eat. Enough protein and
carbohydrates every year to reach their full potential. So for 10 years, we produced
vastly more food than we need and that shows no real sign of ending. And yet you describe
growing up in a society where you could think of
nothing else but food, and where people's physical
stature was limited. People are considerably shorter
in North Korea on average than they are in South
Korea, which of course is a free democratic society. And you literally describe having to go and chase grasshoppers to
just get something to eat. You were never able to
escape the gnawing hunger. - That is a such a good
point that you just said. It's like right now,
North Korea was designed like "The Hunger Games." I don't know if you have read the book. There is like 13 districts
and there's a capital. People in capital are really well fed, and they need everything they need. And the people in the other districts they are on purpose being starved. And the reason why the
regime is maintaining and keeping us starving is,
imagine that if you are fed, you're still gonna think
about the meaning of life. You're then thinking about art and freedom and what is the purpose of life. You're gonna engage with
the higher thoughts. So by the fact they
keeping us starving is, they're making us busy only
thinking of our survival. All people have the force
to do is thinking about, can I find the next meal? So that is why the people
in North Korea are starving. Not because the country's poor,
like, look at Kim Jong-un. He's been building this
like ICBM, the missiles and the nuclear weapons so many years. And he's on purpose not feeding us so he can control us and
make sure that we don't rise and fighting for freedom. - Yeah, it's almost impossible to believe. And so authoritarian is the regime that particularly in your time, so tight was the control over you learning what was happening in all
the rest of the world, that even if you had
a radio or television, it was stuck on one station
that came on in the mornings. You couldn't interfere with it. If you did interfere with it
to try and get more channels, you could face severe punishment. So you didn't know what you
were really being subjected to. - So that is the thing. Like, that's what's unique
about North Koreans is that, so when I was in North Korea, I only knew a few countries in the world. I knew Americans, Japanese,
South Koreans, China. I actually never knew what Australia was. In my entire life, I didn't
even know different continents. North Korea is like the... I was saying like, it's different planet. They literally tell us
that we are Kim Il-sung, the first leader's race. They didn't even tell
us that we are Asians. They tell us that that
we are Kim Il-sung race and North Korean calendar does not begin when Jesus Christ was born. It begins when Kim Il-sung was born. The history was forgotten
to North Koreans. We never share anything
before the Kim's time. And this is the only country right now, till 21st century, they did not have 24 hours electricity. They do not have internet. They do not even know the
existence of internet. So therefore, when I was in North Korea I did not know that I was oppressed. I did not know that I was
enslaved by the regime. And that is a difference
that different kind of degree of oppression that we are talking about. These people have no clue. When I heard this term, animals rights when I escaped to South
Korea, I was like other child. What do you mean animals have rights? Like as a human being, I
didn't even know I had rights in North Korea. And this is why it's so hard to explain to people what North Korea is, because it's just
complete different planet. - So people think communism is all about everyone being equal. And I think you read "Animal Farm." I read "Animal Farm." I'm not quite sure that it's
still on the reading list in many Western schools. It ought to be, it's an incredible piece of literature, which clearly demonstrates what happens in communist regimes. That far from being flat
and everybody being equal, you had a situation where
you lived in a country where you were literally starving, the healthcare was appalling. You were freezing during the winters, your descriptions of
these things in the book are really quite extraordinary. And yet the powers that be in that country live in unbelievable luxury and have devoted enough money
to maintain, for example, as I understand it, 100,000
SAS equivalent level soldiers. In other words, an absolute elite. They, by definition, are well
looked after and well fed, and have diverted enough
resources to make North Korea a military threat, a
nuclear military threat. So you've got this unbelievable unfairness and it reminds you, for
those who remember it, the animal's story, you
know, George Orwell's, all animals are equal, but some
are more equal than others. - Yeah, exactly that. I mean, the Kims came in with
Stalin and Lenin's support. And Mao's support, they came in. They promised North Korean people that the government is gonna
take care of everything. Healthcare, education,
literally every single thing the government, and they take care of it. We are gonna be the mother party for you. And they also promised that we are going to be equal from now on. And what happened is that
we don't dream of equality. What ended up happening to North Korea is that we ended up with a 50 zero, like five zero different classes within North Korean system. So they divide people
into big three categories. And then within big three categories, they divided into 50 different classes. And it became the most unequal society you can find on human history. And this is what that
dream of equality does. It can never guarantee
actual true equality. It doesn't exist. And what also the regime
be that, like you said, they spend billions of billions of dollars to build these nukes and
train these military soldiers. So the god, North Korean god, the Kims can maintain their power. Every human being, everything is dedicated to keeping one guy happy. And to him, the cost of him
being a god in this 21st century that everybody suffers in that system. - So it's extraordinary. You actually formalised,
North Korea formalises, I think you say in the book, three essential,
different societal groups. And then another further breaking down sort of 50 groups across those of different status and a couple of horrendous issues arise
because funnily enough, we're starting to fall into this very trap of genetic and collective
guilt in the West, whereby you could have people,
several generations back in your family, who'd
done the wrong thing. And you were held to be guilty
and worthy of punishment because of not what you'd done, not what your parents had
done, even your grandparents, but someone even before that. So you've got this idea of guilt carrying down through the generations and guilt by a sort of collective guilt, because you belong to a group of people, rather than you being responsible for your own behaviour
and appropriately treated. - I mean, I think that
is one of the injustice that I cannot deal with till this day is that, how did I have any say when my great, great
grandfather did something? I wish I could choose my
ancestors, but you cannot. And it's so appalling when in the West, there's so much white guilt, white shame. Because maybe your ancestors
perhaps owned the slaves. And therefore you are
guilty, you are privileged. No, like nobody has say in it. And that's the thing in North Korea. Depending on what my ancestors did, if they were the landowners, they say your blood is tainted. And like I could not choose it. Because of that, the next
generation is always punished. And not only this, this is
thing guilt by association. By associating somebody, you are guilty. Not just through the blood even, just being a colleague
is enough sometimes. So, because I spoke out after my escape, that guilt by association, that killed three generation of my family who I left got punished. I don't know if they all got executed or sent to prison camp. And this kind of collective guilt, is what's controlling the society. And I think just seeing
the similarity here in free world right now is heartbreaking. I don't think people
understand what they're doing but what they're doing is
so, so unbelievably dangerous and they are playing
with a fire right now. - Yeah, that's a really powerful point. And thank you for making it. If I can put it this way,
you paid a horrendous price in your life to offer us
gold in terms of wisdom. And I think this is a
really interesting point, because you're seeing
now this massive attempt in the West to convince
young people particularly they are inheritors of a bad culture. They are bad people, particularly if they're
of certain skin colour and even sexual gender. And therefore are illegitimate. They belong to a culture
that's not worth defending. And here's the great irony. So far as I'm, and I'm quite... I can never personally come to grips with the horrors of slavery. The idea that one human being think they have a right to
treat another human being as a goods and chattel and to do with those goods and chattels as they think, it is
utterly abhorrent for me. But so far as I'm aware,
the first culture, the first political organisation are the first society that decided that they'd really do something about this and seek to stop it was in fact British. - Yes. Yeah, absolutely. They are the one who liberate
slaves for the first time. - I'm not aware of anybody else doing it. And ever since then, here's a rub. I mean, there were 70,000
members of the Royal Navy, and overwhelmingly, they
would have been white men, died enforcing the end of slavery and the slave tried out of Africa, 70,000. Were they racist too simply because they were white and male? So, thank you. We can talk a bit more
about that in a moment. There's something else I wanna talk about. You say in the book that it's not a place where you can love to come to the West, and to explore notions
of love in many forms. It can be, I love that place. I love going to those shows. I love such and such a type of flower. I love my children and I
love different forms of love but you couldn't in North Korea accept when it came to loving the head of state. He was the only person
you were allowed to love. - Yeah, so I think that's
what I think shocked a lot of Westerners is that, I'm sure you read "Nineteen
Eighty-Four" by George Orwell. It talks about double think, and also talks about double speak. Who control the language,
who controls the thoughts. So regimes eliminated a lot
of concepts for North Koreans. They eliminated concept like stress. So it's like, how can you be stressed in this socialist paradise? It doesn't make sense. So they remove the concept
of stress, depression. And they also of course remove
the concept of romantic love or any human in between love or freedom, liberty, human rights. None of those concepts
exist in North Korea. I never heard from my
mother that she loved me. Never seen my parents saying to each other that they are loving each other. Only time that we were allowed
to use love in our sentences were in the written form, when we described our
feelings toward the Kims. - And yet a reading of your book reveals that for all of that attempt to, if you like, destroy relationships so as to increase control over people, the reality is you had a
deep love for your mother. You had a love for your sister,
for whom you were separated for a long time, for your
father who died tragically, that even the most
repressive regimes in the end can't destroy completely the human desire to be in relationship. And perhaps that's the
central most serious flaw of communism in a theoretical sense. It assumes that you'll give
your loyalty to the party ahead of to your loved ones and even your community and your country. You're expected to give
your loyalty to the party and the loyalty will be rewarded in theory with them deciding what's
right and what's wrong, what you can and can't do,
what you can and do, can't say. You actually went so far as to say that your mother advised
you, don't say anything because even the grass and
the birds can hear you. - Yeah, the first thing that she told me as young girl was, "Don't even whisper because the birds and
mice could hear you." And she also told me
that the dangerous thing that I had in my body was my tongue. If I say a wrong thing, it's
not just gonna kill me only. It was going to get up to
three to eight generations of our family was going to get killed. So saying a one wrong thing
gets your entire family line wiped out from this earth. That is a consequences of
not having freedom of speech. And this is what really shocks
me right now in this culture that was like, people will say, "Oh, in order to have a safe space, we have to ban hate speech." But who decides what is hate? Usually government. But usually the government, if you give them too much power, any absolute power gonna corrupt. So when we have to speak out against them, when they said that is hate speech, you cannot speak them, we are lost. And this is why also I'm saying, sometimes I have good
intentions of saying, "We don't want racist
remarks, so let's ban them." It's a hate speech. But then they don't know what
they're playing with again. It goes down to that, like you literally kill all family members because you said something
wrong by mistake. And it almost forced North
Korean to not to think anymore, 'cause thinking wasn't helpful to us. And even in subconscious, it was better off for us
to be brainwashed than not. And I think that's the only extreme. I mean, this is like the only country who went that extreme to controlling people's
minds through fear. - Os Guinness who writes
extensively in America although he's English, says
that our fundamental freedoms of conscience and belief,
of speech, of association, and there's not a
hierarchy, they go together. And if you start to kill any of them, you end up killing the
wellspring of Western freedom. And you have to be able to talk about these
things, sometimes robustly, and we all have to be accepting sometimes of some pain in terms of hurt feelings. This is me, not Os saying that, because you've seen the price of being denied the right to speak out. It's unspeakably cruel. And one of the things
that comes through clearly in your book is the
desensitisation to suffering. And you describe how you
yourself saw starving children on the train when your
dad was taking you back to your home city and found
it hard to feel for them. Nobody else seemed to. The horrors of going to a hospital where in fact you wake
up on the operating table because the weren't able to
anaesthetise you properly. So scarcely supplied, where
there was medical necessities and of indeed seeing human
bodies piled up in the courtyard when you made the trek to the bathrooms and you were told, "Oh no,
they won't be taken away until there's at least seven." And you comment that it
was unbelievably horrible because there were rats
there in a hospital ground. And the first thing
they did was to eat out the dead people's eyes,
because that's the softest bit that the rats enjoy most. So this terrible
desensitisation that sets in once you give rise to the idea, I suppose, that hatred's all right. That you don't have to respect
another person's dignity. That you're not obliged to recognise another person's intrinsic
value as a human being. - Yeah, I think that's another thing is that I did not know
the word compassion. It wasn't something in our dictionary. So empathy, sympathy, compassion wasn't something that I heard of. So when you don't have the word,
you don't know the concept. And there is the thing
is when you're born here, for you is like freedom is
something like what you have. But for us, when I was born there, seeing the dead bodies on
the street every single day. Seeing my family members
dying from starvation. And nobody told me that was unusual. Nobody told me that was not okay. And I just thought that
was the way of life. And that is the sad
thing about being a human is that we get adjust to anything. We get used to anything. And I think that's what it is, like North Koreans gotten
so used to this oppression. They don't even know
that they're oppressed. Another thing is people keep telling me, so if you, they say, oh,
happiness a relative thing. So therefore in North
Korea, everybody's starving, everybody's hurt, in pain. Therefore, you should not be unhappy because you have no one to compare for, but that is the thing. Like if you really don't have basic needs, you are suffering. You are suffering but you just don't know why you're suffering. So I originally, I was like
making this like description. I remember when I was in North Korea, I felt like my brain cells were dead. There's nothing connecting my brain. After my escape, going to South Korea, I started reading books. I just almost felt the
sensations in my brain of these dots being
connected, lights coming up. And like, that's the thing. Your soul is dead when
you're in that country. You're just numb. That is like, for me, the biggest struggle that I had to overcome
was feeling something. I was so numb and I was
dying to feeling something. And I think that sensation
can make soul later when I had my own son, then I was starting feeling things so much and I was so grateful that
the fact that I feel pain, the fact that I feel hurt,
it is part of being human. Like human experience. But in North Korea, even
that is being denied. The part of feeling something, that part is being denied
in this dictatorship. And that's the kind of horror
that we are talking about. - And yet you paint a picture
of people being so swamped by the constant propaganda
that it's incredibly hard. Even you found it hard when
you escaped to the West and started to understand the true nature of the regime you'd escaped from. To believe that the leader could have been such a dreadful person, because you thought of him as godlike. And his father, at one point, you say, even like God to Christ. He was top dog god. And it was a stunning thing to learn that in fact, he'd
murdered getting somewhere between one and two
million of your own people. So it's very hard to shake that propaganda if that's all you've heard. - So, that's like the
North Koreans are masters at double think. You can't have two parallel
confronting thoughts at the same time. Now you, I remember that one of the songs that we had to sing as children is something called "Nothing to Envy," which is saying like we have nothing to envy in this world. We live in a socialist paradise. Everything's wonderful. However, you're literally
walking next to dead bodies and in your hungry stomach. But you still somehow believe that you're living in the best country, that there's nothing to envy. But you also understand
there's dead bodies. And that is the human psychology that I still don't understand, but Jo Jung-rae clearly talks about it what humans are capable of. That we can double think. We can believe something
that is so contradicting but somehow in extreme situations, humans are capable of
that because you are so... Humans are very flexible
when they adjust to things. I think that was my case. That even though, after my
escape to going to China, when people were saying
like Kims are dictators. Because of them, you were
starving in the country. And I was like defending the Kims. Like, what the hell are you talking about? Kims are great. The people working for
him might be not good. - Of course, it's a powerful illustration of the importance of free speech, because what you're really painting is the model of what happens when all alternate views are shut down, and the mind atrophies. You're not challenged. You can't think. You can't take on different perspectives because you're only fed one. To what extent do you think people... Do people talk about Karl Marx and the whole concept of communism? Or is it just, no, no,
neither the regime is god and we will follow the
Pyongyang leadership because that's what we do. How much sort of philosophy
is in it, do you think? - So initially, Kim
Il-sung was a big follower of Lenin and Marx. So there's a lot of
statue of Marx and Lenin in North Korea. And Kim Il-sung, the first Kim time, when he passed away in 1994. And that's Kim Jong-il
of developing new theory, which he had to tell like
the self reliance theory. So when the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991 that believing the Lenin
didn't really make sense because they all crashed. So then Kim Jong-il
came up with a new idea which is self-reliance based
on Marxism and communism. However, he shaped into thing
called where them being gods, and we have our own way of socialism. So they call themselves
socialist paradise. And North Korean party
is still communist party, they call them the Communist Party. So that Marxism and Leninism is very heavily influenced and embedded in North Korean's entire political system. Even until the '90s, that was the main thing
they were following. - So in the end, it seems to me that you and your mother
and sister resolved that it was better to risk your very lives and try and escape. Family circumstances,
all outlined in the book, you'd been reduced in
status both economically but also in terms of those 50 groupings. You slipped down because your dad, in his noble attempt, I think, to feed you and provide
for you had been forced to do things that the state
took a very dim view of. And so you decided to escape. Tell us about that, because you were to discover, in fact, many, many horrors on a pathway that did eventually take
you to a better life. - Yeah, I think this is
where I'm very grateful, that you wanna talk about this issue because this is something happening and we should make a
change in this situation. So, when North Koreans escape, we are not like Syrian or other refugees. Have the calls, have the phones
and look into the internet. How the map looks like. We don't have any of those technology helping us to understand
how the world works. My case, at least I was lucky I was living in a border town. At night, if you see the
photo of North Korea, it is literally the
darkest place on earth. They don't have any lights there. So I was able to see these
lights coming from China side. And that's when I thought, maybe if I go where the lights were, I might find something to eat. That was my pure motivation. For me, it's like escaping was not even a matter of decision, if I don't, I was gonna
die from starvation anyway. That was the last thing I could do before I died from starvation. And as you say, as soon as
I crossed that first river, but crossing the river is not even easy. The regime who cannot
even afford electricity, they put the wire fences with
the high power electricity on the border, with the machine guns and the guards standing. And not that even enough. They bury land mines
on the general border, not concentration camp. This is why the entire country
became a concentration camp. That's how they seal their borders. Nobody can escape. Locally, the person I was escaping was a broker who bribed the guards and then helped us to
cross the frozen river. And as soon as we entered China, first thing I see was my mom being raped. And the second thing they
told us that we had to be sold as a sexual slaves to Chinese people. And because of their one child
policy that China adopted, they abort a lot of girls. So right now, more than 30 million men, Chinese men cannot afford to find wives. So that's when they demand these women and as a human trafficking and slavery. So it is really shocking
to me in my heart right now that oldest corporations, Nike, Adidas and American celebrities,
Hollywood corporations talking about how injustice
the slavery was in America for how many hundreds of years ago. The slavery that is happening right now because of Chinese Communist Party, they are keeping silence. If the slavery was not a
good thing in the back then, why are they tolerating, why are they keeping silence
that slavery committed by Chinese government right now? And that's when I became a
slave at the age of 13, in 2007. I was sold for less than
$300 in this 21st century. And my mother was sold for $65. And we sold separately like pigs. - There's a bunch of issues
in there, all of them ugly. And they must be hard
for you to talk about, but violence against women is something that we're talking a
lot about in Australia. And it's never justified. It strikes at the very heart
of Western freedom really, to imply that one human being
can be abused by another, in any form. But you would have seen things there that were really troubling. And you've just touched on them. Your mother was right, but she
did so out of love for you. She sacrificed herself for you. And you were not even aware
of what was happening, just truly horrified. You realised that far
from finding freedom, you'd actually been just
simply enslaved in another way. And then of course, there's
this horrendous problem that you allude to, that the one child policy
resulted in young females in China being aborted or killed just after death because males were more highly valued. These are horrific things,
and we ought to confront them and search ourselves and say, "How would we have stood up to this?" And are we free of the ugly impulses that would see us if we were subjected to that sort of propaganda. And as you and I are saying, we're starting to see some of
that propaganda in the West is that we wanna bring
on ourselves voluntarily what others have had forced on themselves. Are we really thinking this through? Sometimes we need to be
confronted with some ugly reality and ask ourselves very hard questions. Am I free of these sorts of prejudices and dreadful impulses? - It is so sad right now. America is obsessed. I mean, I'm in the USA. And even like Western democratic countries are obsessed with hating white men. And like literally, I went
to Columbia University, basically everything comes down to how white men screw Africa, screw the rest of the world, how they colonise the whole thing and they made everything
worse for everybody else. And they are guilty of every single crime that exists in this human history. And the fact that Mao killed
like 50 million human beings, Stalin killed five million human beings is not taught, not even discussed. And right now, at this very moment, when these people are
talking about the reparation of the slaves that happened
many, many, many decades ago, that there's slavery exactly
happening at this very moment that we're talking about. That right now, there are
300,000 North Korean defectors hiding in China. Most of them are women and they are all being
sold in the brothels. They're getting killed. They're being raped every single second. But what corporation, which celebrity who cares about justice is standing up? Nobody. Hollywood is begging to please China no matter what it cost. I get censored on YouTube
when I talk about the women, North Korean women suffering
on Twitter and YouTube. They censor me. And if the Me Too mattered in the West, why talking about Me Too
in the under communist, it's not something they support. So this hypocrisy that we
are in is very so sickening. And I don't even know why the West is tolerating this behaviour? This is like a madness. - You, in fact, were traded
many times as a human being, you and your mother into
some dreadful situations. Staggeringly, you all managed, or you and your mother in particular managed to find, stay in contact. You even managed to find your father and arrange for him to be brought over. But he was very, very ill and died. It must've been soul-destroying, and at times, well you actually describe how at one point you determined that you were going to end it all and you found a freedom
in that, but then resolved that no, you'd fight on
for your mother's sake. And I assume your sister and
father as well at that time. So you went through a great deal of pain at the hand of a man who was
himself deeply conflicted. Plainly in some ways, he
was capable of feeling and he felt for you and
otherwise his circumstances, I suppose you could say he
was locked into a regime in his own mind and behaviour
of brutality and inhumanity. And so there's this
terrible tussle going on in him between his better nature. He even looked after your father's grave, I understand, when he
finally died and was buried and the brutal way that he abused you. - I know. I think that's
why life is so complicated. It's like nobody's pure
evil, nobody's pure angel. And when people decide to divide things into black and white,
that's like when I can see that's when we make the mistake. Nothing is that simple. And of course that's what
I learned in my journey. But about like, what I think
about what I went through is that now I remember
when I went to New York, people, my editors are telling me like, "Oh, Yeonmi, you gotta get a therapy." And I never heard such a
thing, therapy in my life. And it's like, oh, people in the West, that when they have problems, they get PTSD and they go to therapy. And of course, I asked
them, how much is it? They said it was $200 per hour. And I was literally thinking, the fact that you know what trauma is, you don't need a therapy. And my people in North Korea do not even know what therapy... I mean, what trauma is. They don't even know what injustice is. And now, after I'm going
through all of that, gonna be resentful, what I went through makes no sense why I survived. And that is added perspective. That's what I learned about all this. And you always can come up
with your own interpretation of what happened and your own conclusion and how you respond to it. And I am, that's why, I
don't know if you read, I mean, you read my book that
I begin with in my books. There are two things I'm grateful for. One was I was born in North
Korea and two was I escaped. If I didn't born in North Korea, I would not know so many
things that I know now. And in a way, the things that I saw and was keeping me staying in the West that I'm not like bitter
and resentful about. I cannot believe in the
worst, are so this young and are so bitter and so resentful. They think they are the most systemically oppressed generation. And I'm like, I don't even
know what to say to them at that point. - That's just so important
that we understand how fortunate we are and
how important that is that we understand the basis of freedom and we'd go to defending it instead of attacking it all the time. But now, to move on,
your resolve with China isn't going to work. You go through many terrible experiences. I think greatly to your credit, you opt to work in a chapter in which can't have been much fun, but it was better than prostitution. And you then identify a
pathway out through Mongolia. A circuitous route to
escape to South Korea. And you discover, and you write
quite powerfully about it, Christian missionaries, who are prepared to literally risk their
lives to help people they don't know. Again, a bitter sweet thing. North Korea, an atheistic regime. You'd never sort of heard
of the concept of God or had Christian faith outlined to you. You met these people. Tell us a bit about how
that all unfolded for you. - Yeah, so my thing about my encounters with the Christians have evolved a lot. So when I actually met them, their price for us to be rescued by them was us becoming Christians. And I thought it was really
funny that in North Korea, for me to survive after
believing Kims as gods. But in China, for me to rescued, I had to believe in gods again. And also another irony is
that I don't know if you knew that Kim Il-sung, the first
Kim's mother and father, their grandparents were Christians. So Kim Il-sung knew-
- Really? - Yes, they were very devout Christians. So North Korean regime copied the Bible. So they said, "Oh, I love you so much. This universe chose me as a god. So I'm giving you my son. So my son dies, however, but his spirit is with us forever. Then when we die, we
join them in a paradise." So that's the thing. Like people say, why they
believe Kims are gods, but then same theory. Why did the people believe
that Jesus was the son of God? The same thing. If you can believe that
Jesus was son of God, you also believe that Kims are gods. We get like information restriction. And because of that reason, North Korea is number one
Christian persecution country that this is like religion directly, reveals what they have done, which they were copying the whole thing. And when I met these Christians, I was like, what is God? What is Jesus? And then my, I still
remember my fellow defector told me, "Darling, don't worry. Put the God into Kim Il-sung and put down Jesus to Kim Jong-il." And so you plug them in,
everything makes perfect sense. Like, they know how
much hair in your head. They know what you're thinking. That's why after my escape, I still believed that Kims
were able to read my thoughts. I was even afraid to think. And that's how they did. And then the only thing these Christians were telling me that I was a sinner. And I think that's what it really gave me a lot of trauma at the
time, that it was first time I realised what I have
done wasn't a good thing. I should have just killed myself. I should not have survived. But obviously, I think
they were more talking about sinner perspective, that all of us are sinner. But for someone going through all of that and you keep telling them you're sinner, you cannot like repent it. It's a very hard thing
when there's no path out. And so I became really not resentful of that whole experience, but
now I'm thinking about it, they were the only
people actually risk life for the right thing to do. All these people are
talking about inclusiveness and talking about embracing
people like blah, blah, none of them taking actual real action to do anything and helping others. And they were the people, even though they demanded
me to become Christian and more applying these
strict Christianity rules, but they were still the people, the most selfless people who
saved a lot of human beings. And that's why it's so complex. That's why there's no pure angel either. Everybody is imperfect. Even though they are a monster or they are good people,
they all have imperfection. And that's like, it's up to us to make a reconciliation with those parts. And always choose a good, what
they could have offered us. - So by this time, you have
learned an unbelievable amount in what we'd call in Australia,
the university of life. But you turned out to be very good at academic university as well. You get to South Korea,
which interestingly enough is another interesting contrast here 'cause North Korea is atheistic and Christians are dreadfully persecuted. South Korea is one of the most, has one of the most sort
of high concentrations of Christians relative to its population and missionaries of any
country in the world. It's been enormously shaped culturally since the Korean War by that faith. And so in many ways you get there and it's a complete and utter contrast, great gleaming halls and light and food, and a very high standard of living and all of the modern
accoutrements of life, including of course
the electronic wizardry that lets us do the sort of things we're doing right now, just extraordinary. We can communicate across
the world, unlike North Korea where you're lucky to be able
to whisper to your neighbour. But it must've been an extraordinary thing to get your way through the camp where they tried to work out that you were who you said you were, you weren't a spy or somebody implanted. You get through that terrible
process and your resolve, you're determined to
get yourself educated. And in fact, you do very well but it must've been incredibly hard, because walking out of the difficulties, if I can put it this way, the darkness that you'd experienced into the glaring light of
something that's so different, it must've been personally
very challenging again for you. - I think we were like so poor. Like in South Korea, my mom
and I would go like trash bins. And like, we were just amazed, like why are these people
throwing such a good stuff? We're like, they throw the
perfectly fine clothes, perfectly fine mattresses,
furniture and plates. We were picking them up. And that wasn't actually
a challenging part. Being poor was not. But I think the actual
challenging part for me was how to trust again. When I got there, they told me, "Everything that you believe
in North Korea was lie." That Kims are not gods. They go to the bathroom. They're like actual human
beings pretending to be gods. And they say the Korean War
was started by North Korea. Americans are not bastards. South Korea is a free country,
not colonised by America. And I was thinking, so if you tell me everything that I believe was a lie, how do I know what you're
saying is not a lie? That is a really such a, I
think, difficult spot to be in. Like, I completely lost my faith
in humanity and completely. I think that's when I-
- Did you? - Yeah. And also, I mean, especially
men, like when I was 13. My introduction to men
was seeing my mom raped and afterwards myself
going through all of it. And it is when you are traumatised, you cannot think full picture. Like, one thing can definitely trigger you to think and bring back the emotions. And I think a lot of
that was definitely there when I got there and had
to trust men and women. Everybody was so hard. And also, how can you not be resentful? As I say, one day I was watching this TV, this very famous celebrity in South Korea, K-pop stars are crying in
this fundraising concert. I literally thought
something was horribly wrong. Someone dying or something going on. And they were like dedicating two hours of this concert to
raising money for animals. I love animals. But then I was thinking, if you guys have this much
resources to fight for animals, why are you not fighting for human rights? Why human rights is always
comes next to everything else? Humans became anti-human. That's when I became like
so shocked in the West, is there's so much anti-human sentiment. They're so easy to like
dehumanise each other. Like I was like, if the human
life doesn't matter to you, people ask me why they need
to care about human rights? And I'm like, if it doesn't matter to you, then who is gonna fight for
us when we are not free? And this is something of culture. I don't know where it's coming from. There's so much anti-human sentiment. And in South Korea, of
course I was bitter. Like, this is like, these
humans are horrible. Of course they are willing to die and cry for puppy and some animals, but they definitely don't wanna do this for the young girls being sold and raped and while they have power to change that. But to me also, when I realised, I was like these people did not know. And that's why I
determined to risk my life to let them know what's going on. Once they know and they
don't take an action, they are responsible. I do think they are guilty but I cannot blame the
people who didn't do anything when did not know what was going on. So at least I'm gonna do my part, is letting them know what's happening and let them decide what
they're gonna do that. - So tell us about your
journey back to sanity, if I can put it that way, and finding a balanced
perspective in the midst of this, because you're a person who
we would say is integrated, as opposed to flying apart. You've pulled it together. As much as you're
willing to talk about it, I'd be interested to
hear about that journey and how you see things now. - Well, I think in order
to be happy in life, you gotta be grateful. And for me, the first thing I had to do is how to be not bitter and
how not do the self pity. That if you get into self pity cycle, you can never get out of it. So, first thing I was
looking, how lucky am I? How can I be... I was always saying, I'm
so ridiculously lucky. The people who didn't make it, not because they fought
less harder than me or like who was less smarter or anything, pure chance of luck, I made it. And so many people who
fought harder than me died and never made it to freedom. So realising that truth really set me free from every resentment, bitterness. I became so grateful. And it was a very humbling thing. And also gratitude for
the people who fought for democracy in South Korea, in America. South Koreans had dictators. They had colonisation. They went through so much,
fought for their freedom. So by the time when I
came out of North Korea, there were other countries like
democratic for me to go to. And what scares me is that
when North Korea becomes free, none of the rest of the world is free and they have nowhere to go. I think that was also very helpful. And last time in, of
course, for me to finding all this perspective was
through reading books. The books really helped me to guide me through every process. - You mentioned the terrible
experiences you'd had at the hands of men, not all bad, because you loved your dad very dearly. And you saw some humanity in the man who first bought you, some humanity there. You saw the bravery of the
Han Chinese man missionary prepared to risk his life. And indeed he did end up, I
think in prison, didn't he? He was captured for what he was doing. So you've seen both sides. Freedom in the end can only flourish when human beings trust one another. Whenever two or three are
gathered, the issue of trust. Can I trust this person comes to the fore. If you can trust them, you can flourish and go forward together. If you can't, you're naturally wary. You look for safety rather than freedom. Would you say you've got to the point where you are able to
genuinely trust others? I know that's a personal question but it's one asked because I think it's such an important issue. Learning to trust again. - I think you have such
a good point there, is that when I came to America, I couldn't believe how
trusting people were. The fact that you get into Uber, how do you know that
driver is not a kidnapper? And then also when you get a pizza, your order person, how do you not know they didn't put poison or they're gonna like give you the food? 'cause you pay them
first on the credit card and you trust the pizza
gonna get delivered. Western democracy countries
operate based on trust. This is a foundation
of being in free world. Having a trust. The first thing that
regime did in North Korea was destroying the trust between people. So they literally even have us saying, do not even trust your own back. Of course not even your family members. They make spies. So if you and I and
somebody else in the room, I'm spying on you,
somebody's spying on me. So I'm spying, I'm being spied. Even though I'm a good person, I'm not gonna report on you, I know somebody report on me,
but that person has no option 'cause that person is also
being spied on by somebody. Creating that distrust was the first thing to destroy the country. And I think that's why
for me now realising... I think, but the thing,
it was a tough journey that trust was hard. Not trusting helped me to get where I was. Not trusting those Chinese
people, not trusting the regime got me through a lot of horrible things. So my survival instincts, a lot of times tells me do not trust. But now I have to logically understand, and I have so much goodness in people. I saw those missionaries. I saw the kindness after
my whole horrible journey. And now it makes sense to me that if I don't trust, that's when I lose. So I think understanding
of full range of the cycle and where I was, why my
tendency is not trusting and how to recognise that,
then how they respond after it. It takes a lot of years
of a lot of mastery about practise and discipline. And now I'm definitely in a state, way, way, way more trusting. And I love men. Like, I love humanity. I love humanity. - Could I ask you, having been through all of those experiences and coming from an atheistic country, and then going to the West,
which is becoming atheistic, but which was in many ways, massively shaped by Christianity, how do you personally feel
about Christian faith now, if I may ask you that? If it's too sensitive, it's not somewhere you
want to go, I'd understand. But I'd just be interested
after your life experiences. And then somebody, you could say, "There couldn't be a God,
I've been treated so badly." You could say on the other hand, "We were meant for better than this." Some people behave so evilly
that we've got to come to grips with the question of evil, good and evil and choose good, and in that, find faith. - Well, like, so after that Christians that
saved me, I felt guilty. I wanted to give one more chance. So I didn't go study, but I
went to literally Bible study several months and I
didn't become a Christian. So afterwards I was like known atheist. I was like following Sam Harris, a lot of people hearing
why they became atheists. And last year, I think two years ago when I was reading Dr.
Jordan Peterson's book, "12 Rules for Life," that's when I actually started having new appreciation for religion. Not just for Christianity in general. I was reading a lot of
Buddhism and Christianity. The value that I see, it's not like because I believe that
there's Adam and Eve. I mean, it can be. The thing that as I'm getting older, what I know is like how little I know. The fact that I know that I don't know, that is a wisdom. There's so much unknown in this world that the arrogance that I had before, it was like, I'm an atheist. God is not there. That was coming from pure arrogance. Anything is possible. At this point, what I am
trying to focusing on is, you should have morality,
you should have rules. And I'm sending my son to
church for that reason. It is important to hear
what is sinful what is not. What is good, what is bad? And we are raising this new generation where they never get to hear
they are doing things wrong. Saying no to your kids
almost the worst thing you can do right now as a
parent in this Western culture. Like, they can never do anything wrong. And that's how we raise
generation of entitlement. They are so entitled that they think they deserve everything. And that's why I think religion was good. That connected us. We had a shared values. That then we had a God, we had
to care about our neighbours. We had to forgive. We had to work hard. Like, all those shared values
connected our humanity. Now after losing God, people became believing
everything and anything. They believe in literally everything. And that's the world that I
think I don't wanna be in. And that's why I'm finding God and looking for God at
this point of my life. - Well, thank you for being so honest. And it's a powerful reminder that those of us who have led
relatively comfortable lives should be very careful about making quick and rapid and convenient just judgements, if you like, and not look honestly for purpose and meaning
and explanation in life. It seems to me anyway. Can I ask you a couple of other questions about as you look at the world today, there have been authoritarian regimes right down through history, and they've always been
unbelievably controlling and perhaps no one's better, mastered it better than
North Korea up until now, because they have been able
to close themselves off and you've described how
little you really knew about the outside world. There are two interesting
and new developments now that I think make the world look different for totalitarian regimes. One is, it must be very hard
to cut your citizens off in the age of the internet. So they know nothing of the outside world. And presumably even Pyongyang is now finding it harder than ever to keep their citizens
completely isolated. On the other hand, the state now, particularly in China has access to such unbelievable technology that they don't have to
rely on your neighbours or your children saying you
said something inappropriate. They can monitor your lives all the time. It's 400 million closed
circuit television sets and recognition technology and so forth and point systems, or
you do the wrong thing, you lose points. And those points will determine everything from the speed of your internet, through to whether you're allowed to marry and whether you get a job. So do you have any comments
on the role of technology? Because it seems to me on the one hand, it should be making it harder for authoritarian
regimes to hide the truth about what they're doing to their people. On the other hand, that same
technology seems to be evolving in a way that enables even more control by authoritarian regimes. And the question at heart
is, do you think a place like North Korea will be
eventually forced to open up? - So yeah, that's really good questions. I think about technology,
the role of technology. Is it gonna help us be freer or like it's gonna make us more oppressed and controlled by the
authoritarian regimes? To me is whatever it is,
even guns or even technology is a very neutral thing. You can use a gun to kill a dictator and free the enslaved people. And technology, you can give access to the children to be educated and connect to have a business and create prosperity. To me, the question is never like questioning what technology can be. Technology can shape in a way who the users are and how they use it. And the problem that I see right now is Chinese Communist Party. They are using this like
very neutral technology into surveilling people, as you said. The social credit system. If your credit is low
that you cannot even buy a mere train ticket or aeroplane ticket to see your family members. And North Korea with that
kind of poor economy, they bought this AI,
the recognition cameras and putting in the towns since 1984. So they make sure that no
stranger in the town coming in. They're making sure who's
out, who's not in there. So it became a lot easier
to surveillance people. It is for true, but then I didn't think that's like what
technology responsible for. The people who's using it is responsible. And we need to try to change those people who are using this technology in that way. And a lot of these, will
North Korea ever be free? I hope so. That's what I'm doing it. But the thing is, we know that free market does not bring political freedom. We saw it with China. The economy grew. People got richer, people fed and they don't have to
thinking about the mean. Now they can think about art and music, the meaning of life, but
as long as there is a fear, most people are scared. They have now something to lose. That's why they don't wanna fight. Countries like Iran and Cuba. Those people have more
access to information than North Koreans do. They have American newspapers
on their USB drives. They watch CNN, but
those people don't rise. I think that is why we
need to teach people, you've gotta fight for freedom. That has been lacking. This is something as
we learn the behaviour. Like you cannot expecting
people to be fed, and next thing they're gonna do is fighting for political freedom. But history has shown
us, that's not the case. Actually, people become more scared and because they now have things to lose. When you're like literally starving and do whatever you can to be free. And I think that's why in some ways, I mean, it's not that North
Korea might follow China path. They might open up economy a little bit and start to feed people. Then people get comfortable
and they're okay being slave and can maintain the Communist Party as long as they want to. And now it is our job for
us to teaching these people and tell them that we
gotta fight to be free. And because without fighting, freedom was never coming to us. It's never given to us. - Well, you're right. We in the West need to remember that we were not always free. People paid unbelievable
prices to secure freedom and then to maintain it. And now we've been seduced
into walking away from it, ironically often by the
influence of Marxism really, in its modern forms, where it's all about race
wars and cultural wars and about class warfare. It just presents in a different way. The overthrow of democratic capitalism is still the objective. It is extraordinary to
me that so many people have been seduced by this. When the evidence all around the world and stories as powerful as
yours warn us so strongly. Can I ask you on the issue of fear? Because fear is a huge,
huge problem for humanity. So much that is bad is done
because people are afraid. You've been very courageous. You do tell the story in your book about the North Korean regime, becoming aware that it's
watching you very closely because of what you've said and done. Are you able to throw fear,
the shackles of fear off? I mean, you've been very gutsy. You must know what fear is. Your real courage is overcoming it and deciding to press on anyway, I think. - So, it goes back to this. It is true that I have bad days. Most of North Koreans after they escape, in their dreams are still in North Korea. They never leave that
country in their dreams. I don't know why we cannot
leave our country in our dreams. We are still chased. We are still like worrying
about finding food. So after like going through these dreams and when I wake up, I sometimes literally cannot
get out of bed and I am guilty. The survivor's guilt is such a weird thing that the moment when I'm
in like this warm mattress an the AC and like the heater, I know my people, the people that I know, my friends is not gonna
have the same thing. And how do I not feel guilty? But where I am okay with the fear is that, we saw how Kim Jong-un was killing his half brother
in Malaysian airport. He literally does not care. And recently we saw with the Saudis. Jamal Khashoggi, the Saudi journalist who had a huge following on
social media, on Twitter. He goes chopped up like lamb chops in a Saudi consulate in Turkey. And what was the consequences
for them? Nothing. Even the US didn't stand up for him. No country. Amazon, the companies, no
companies stood for it. Even that kind of high profile person dies like in most inhumane way. And I think for me to understand that, it's like it is gonna be injustice. Even if I die, there's no
accountability for him. Nothing gonna happen. But I think of what comforts me is that, I always ask, why me? Why did I survive? And right now they're like only 207 North Korean defectors in America. During the almost 80 years, only that little people made it this far. And I'm sure there's a reason
why I made it this far. And I hope to believe
the reason why I survived is doing this. And another thing is, I know my enemy. My enemy is a big hitter who
has like 25 million slaves, who has nukes to shoot America down. And if he wants to kill me,
there's nothing I can do to try to avoid. So in a way I'm like more
surrender to the situation. And at the given moment, if
I'm gonna live another year, if he lets me live another five years, I will do whatever I find most meaningful and most, the time that was
meaningfully used in my life. So I think as I have to be
very logical and rational and not emotional. And that definitely helps. - Look, I can only salute you. I can only say that you're doing a tremendous job for freedom,
really at three levels. Personal freedom, because you've plainly chartered away through
the chains, if you like that can sort of bind us up, that we're just locked down in fear. But you're also, I think striking very powerful blows for freedom in your own homeland and now in the West. So I think you said recently
that freedom is so fragile and it's never going to be
there if you don't fight for it whether you're a freedom
fighter of the first order. And I just thank you so much
for giving us your time. - Thank you so much for hearing my story and giving me this platform
to talk about freedom. (laughs) I think we are on the same boat. - Thank you.
- Yeah. - Thank you for watching this episode. We appreciate your support. If you value vital
conversations like this one, be sure to subscribe to the channel there and also click the notification bell to stay up to date with new releases. (upbeat music)
