On this episode of China Uncensored, On this episode of China Uncensored, well, we’re finally getting towards the
final round well, we’re finally getting towards the
final round of Civilization. of Civilization. What? What? Thermonuclear warfare? Thermonuclear warfare? Shoot, I wanted to get to Alpha Centauri… Shoot, I wanted to get to Alpha Centauri… Hi, welcome to China Uncensored, Hi, welcome to China Uncensored, I’m your host Chris Chappell. I’m your host Chris Chappell. Kim Jong-un, Kim Jong-un, the rotund God emperor of North Korea. the rotund God emperor of North Korea. What can you say about a man that, What can you say about a man that, when you type his name into Google, when you type his name into Google, it auto completes Kim Jong-un it auto completes Kim Jong-un flamethrower execution. flamethrower execution. Apparently he executed an official by flamethrower. Apparently he executed an official by flamethrower. Also, mortar… Also, mortar… And anti-aircraft gun. And anti-aircraft gun. Unless you're an actual hermit, Unless you're an actual hermit, you’ve probably heard that the hermit kingdom you’ve probably heard that the hermit kingdom is on the warpath. is on the warpath. Last year marked North Korea’s Last year marked North Korea’s 5th nuclear test. 5th nuclear test. They also released this nice video They also released this nice video where they blow up the US Capitol. where they blow up the US Capitol. And threatened to nuke Manhattan: And threatened to nuke Manhattan: “all the people there would be killed immediately “all the people there would be killed immediately and the city would burn to ashes.” and the city would burn to ashes.” Which is an odd threat to make since, Which is an odd threat to make since, you know, you know, the United Nations is there. the United Nations is there. And probably a lot of countries And probably a lot of countries would be mad at Kim would be mad at Kim if he blew it up. if he blew it up. Also there are North Korean diplomats there. Also there are North Korean diplomats there. And me, too. And me, too. So blowing up Manhattan So blowing up Manhattan is in no one’s best interests. is in no one’s best interests. To top it all off, To top it all off, North Korea has been conducting North Korea has been conducting a series of ballistic missile tests. a series of ballistic missile tests. Now all this posturing might have worked Now all this posturing might have worked on the United State’s last president, on the United State’s last president, who failed to put the bomb in O-bomb-a. who failed to put the bomb in O-bomb-a. But things have changed under President Trump, But things have changed under President Trump, who puts the bomb in bombastic. who puts the bomb in bombastic. Not only has he launched a Twitter war on
North Korea... Not only has he launched a Twitter war on
North Korea... He’s shown he may be willing He’s shown he may be willing to go for an actual war. to go for an actual war. In the course of a week, In the course of a week, Trump ordered a retaliatory missile strike
on Syria Trump ordered a retaliatory missile strike
on Syria for Assad’s use of sarin nerve gas. for Assad’s use of sarin nerve gas. Then dropped the “mother of all bombs”
on ISIS. Then dropped the “mother of all bombs”
on ISIS. And over the weekend, And over the weekend, a US carrier strike group headed to North
Korea... a US carrier strike group headed to North
Korea... ...as they prepared to celebrate the 105th
birthday ...as they prepared to celebrate the 105th
birthday of founder Kim Il Sung. of founder Kim Il Sung. And how did North Korea plan to celebrate? And how did North Korea plan to celebrate? “Satellite intelligence suggests that a
nuclear test “Satellite intelligence suggests that a
nuclear test could be in the works.” could be in the works.” I mean fireworks are nice I mean fireworks are nice but that is going a bit too far. but that is going a bit too far. So it was a bit of a tense weekend. So it was a bit of a tense weekend. Since we are not now scrounging through the
wasteland Since we are not now scrounging through the
wasteland looking for slightly radioactive looking for slightly radioactive roach meat and Rad-X, roach meat and Rad-X, you might have correctly guessed you might have correctly guessed we did not have a nuclear war. we did not have a nuclear war. So if North Korea didn’t launch a nuke, So if North Korea didn’t launch a nuke, how did they celebrate their holiday? how did they celebrate their holiday? With a military parade showcasing With a military parade showcasing their latest intercontinental ballistic missile
technology... their latest intercontinental ballistic missile
technology... ...and a big old dance party! ...and a big old dance party! Because nothing says there’s no famine in
North Korea, Because nothing says there’s no famine in
North Korea, like lots of people dancing. like lots of people dancing. You can’t dance if you’re starving. You can’t dance if you’re starving. And then the next day, And then the next day, they did have a totally awesome ballistic
missile test! they did have a totally awesome ballistic
missile test! U.S. Pacific Command says it, quote, U.S. Pacific Command says it, quote, "blew up almost immediately" "blew up almost immediately" off the Korean peninsula's east coast. off the Korean peninsula's east coast. Most people in North Korea weren’t too troubled Most people in North Korea weren’t too troubled by the news of the failure. by the news of the failure. Mainly because they didn’t hear Mainly because they didn’t hear any news of the failure. any news of the failure. And when some Reuters reporters And when some Reuters reporters spilled the beans, spilled the beans, citizens responded with all the correct answers. citizens responded with all the correct answers. If the news is true, If the news is true, failure is the mother of success. failure is the mother of success. We will make more efforts to make We will make more efforts to make even more powerful weapons in the future. even more powerful weapons in the future. That's a lie... That's a lie... Scientists like me don't believe that. Scientists like me don't believe that. And you've got to believe And you've got to believe the scientists of North Korea. the scientists of North Korea. The good news is that President Trump The good news is that President Trump has worked out a close friendship has worked out a close friendship with someone powerful enough to have with someone powerful enough to have an impact on North Korea. an impact on North Korea. The Easter Bunny. The Easter Bunny. It’s part of the new US-fairy tale alliance It’s part of the new US-fairy tale alliance that will also include Jack Frost, that will also include Jack Frost, Santa Claus, Santa Claus, and the Tooth Fairy. and the Tooth Fairy. Yes, things are looking very... Yes, things are looking very... Grimm for North Korea. Grimm for North Korea. What's that, Shelley? What's that, Shelley? Yes, I know that's just a movie. Yes, I know that's just a movie. But can North Korea But can North Korea actually start a nuclear war? actually start a nuclear war? Well, technically they haven’t even finished Well, technically they haven’t even finished the Korean War. the Korean War. Right now it’s just in an awkward Right now it’s just in an awkward decades-long ceasefire. decades-long ceasefire. But if it starts up again, But if it starts up again, this time, China's not on their side anymore. this time, China's not on their side anymore. It's on America's. It's on America's. At least on this issue. At least on this issue. At first it might not seem like the US and
China At first it might not seem like the US and
China could be allies against North Korea. could be allies against North Korea. After all, hundreds of thousands of Chinese
soldiers After all, hundreds of thousands of Chinese
soldiers died fighting against US troops died fighting against US troops in the Korean War. in the Korean War. But the last Chinese leader But the last Chinese leader to really support North Korea to really support North Korea was the four-eyed toad Jiang Zemin. was the four-eyed toad Jiang Zemin. And he’s Xi Jinping’s big political rival. And he’s Xi Jinping’s big political rival. So it’s not a coincidence that, So it’s not a coincidence that, as Xi Jinping takes down his political enemies as Xi Jinping takes down his political enemies tied to Jiang Zemin, tied to Jiang Zemin, he is also dismantling China’s old friendly
relationship he is also dismantling China’s old friendly
relationship with North Korea. with North Korea. In February, In February, China said it was cutting off coal imports
from North Korea China said it was cutting off coal imports
from North Korea in compliance with UN Security Council sanctions. in compliance with UN Security Council sanctions. And after the meeting between Xi and Trump, And after the meeting between Xi and Trump, even my favorite state-run media, even my favorite state-run media, the super nationalist Global Times, the super nationalist Global Times, came out in favor of stricter UN sanctions came out in favor of stricter UN sanctions and warned Pyongyang that it should and warned Pyongyang that it should "avoid making mistakes." "avoid making mistakes." The Global Times, by the way, The Global Times, by the way, has long been considered part of Jiang's faction. has long been considered part of Jiang's faction. So if even they are criticizing North Korea, So if even they are criticizing North Korea, it doesn't look good for Kim Jong-un. it doesn't look good for Kim Jong-un. Now there are signs the the US and China Now there are signs the the US and China are working together on dealing with the situation… are working together on dealing with the situation… ...and the Chinese military has been put on
alert. ...and the Chinese military has been put on
alert. So China will not be joining North Korea So China will not be joining North Korea if they decide to provoke the United States. if they decide to provoke the United States. But Chinese authorities also don't want But Chinese authorities also don't want a sudden collapse of the Kim regime a sudden collapse of the Kim regime to send millions of refugees across the border. to send millions of refugees across the border. Could North Korea actually launch a nuke? Could North Korea actually launch a nuke? It's not clear whether they've been It's not clear whether they've been able to make a nuclear warhead small enough able to make a nuclear warhead small enough to mount it on a missile. to mount it on a missile. But South Korea or Japan But South Korea or Japan could definitely be in harm’s way could definitely be in harm’s way from a North Korean missile attack, from a North Korean missile attack, even if it's not a nuclear one. even if it's not a nuclear one. For now, I guess all we can do is take comfort For now, I guess all we can do is take comfort in Vice President Pence’s presence in Vice President Pence’s presence at the Demilitarized Zone between North and
South Korea. at the Demilitarized Zone between North and
South Korea. Because dressing like you’re in Top Gun
says to me, Because dressing like you’re in Top Gun
says to me, everything is going to be all right. everything is going to be all right. So how do you feel standing So how do you feel standing on the brink of nuclear annihilation? on the brink of nuclear annihilation? Leave your comments below. Leave your comments below. And since YouTube has a real penchant And since YouTube has a real penchant for demonetizing episodes about North Korea, for demonetizing episodes about North Korea, consider supporting China Uncensored consider supporting China Uncensored on the website Patreon, on the website Patreon, link is below. link is below. For just a dollar an episode, For just a dollar an episode, you can help us keep the show going. you can help us keep the show going. Thanks for watching this episode of China
Uncensored, Thanks for watching this episode of China
Uncensored, once again I’m your host Chris Chappell, once again I’m your host Chris Chappell, see you next time. see you next time.
