Kim Jong Un has warned that North Korea is struggling to maintain food supplies, as reports say prices of everyday goods are skyrocketing. Speaking at a party meeting, Kim said the
food situation was "now getting tense" because of grain shortages brought about by typhoons last year. Experts have warned over the past month that
food was running short in North Korea. Some media sources reported that price spikes
had been seen in Pyongyang, the nation's capital, with a kilogram of bananas now costing $45. One kilogram, or 2.2 pounds, is the weight
of approximately seven bananas, meaning each banana most likely costs just over $6.40. Some North Korean farmers were asked to contribute
2 liters of their urine each day to help produce fertilizer. It is rare for Kim to acknowledge food shortages
and, though such shortages are concerning, experts don't believe they will lead to a country-wide famine. Earlier this month, Tomás Ojea Quintana,
the UN special rapporteur on human rights in North Korea, told the UN Security Council
that it should consider lifting sanctions on the country. Ojea Quintana said that the COVID-19 pandemic
had caused North Korea "drastic economic hardship" and that North Korean trade with China fell 90% in March and April. The country is expected to be 1.35 million
tons short of food this year. North Korea needs about 5.75 million tons
of food every year to feed its people. The shortages are caused by summer typhoons
and flooding, as well as a shortage of farming equipment  and the COVID-19 pandemic, which
saw North Korea close its land borders. Despite the warning of shortages, Kim said
North Korea's economy had "shown improvement as a whole". An analysis of Kim's media appearances, and
the length of his watch strap, Kim appeared to have lost weight over the past year. In 2020, three destructive typhoons, U.S.-backed
sanctions, and the global pandemic fueled concern that North Korea’s 26 million people
could slip back into the devastating food shortages the country faced during the rule
of Kim Jong Un’s father in the 1990s. A trio of major storms disrupting food supplies
in a nation where the United Nations World Food Program estimated some 40% of the population was already undernourished. The devastation follows a poor harvest last
year and disruption to food imports from China and elsewhere due to the coronavirus. “People are reportedly selling their assets
and furniture, taking loans, and going to the mountains to find medicinal herbs, forage
for food and cultivate small patches of land to survive,” the UN’s Special Rapporteur
on North Korean human rights said. Border closures due to COVID-19 that reduced
imports of agricultural inputs such as fuel and fertilizer during planting earlier this
year could lead to this year’s harvest is the smallest since 1994. While extreme weather events have disrupted
farming around the world, North Korea is especially vulnerable. A mountainous country, only 22% of its land
is suitable for crops, according to the UN Food and Agriculture Organization. The nation’s isolation from global trade
has also left it perennially dependent on food aid, mostly from China. Despite improvements in North Korea’s farm
output over the past few decades, the country is still in the bottom quarter of the Global
Hunger Index, and in the top quarter of the Index for Risk Management in terms of disaster risk. Floods and drought regularly strike North
Korea in the same year, contributing to a perennial annual deficit of about 1 million tons of food. On the other side, North Korea’s climate
risk has been made worse by decades of deforestation. Starting in the 1970s, people cut down trees
to clear hillsides for farming. Almost 900,000 hectares of forest have been
lost over the past three decades. The biggest famine happened in the 1990s in
North Korea and was officially named "Arduous March" or "March of Suffering". It was a period of mass starvation together
with a general economic crisis from 1994 to 1998 in North Korea. During this time there was an increase in
defection from North Korea which peaked at the end of the famine period. The famine stemmed from a variety of factors. Economic mismanagement and the loss of Soviet
support caused food production and imports to decline rapidly. A series of floods and droughts exacerbated the crisis. The North Korean government and its centrally
planned system proved too inflexible to effectively curtail the disaster. Estimates of the death toll vary widely. Out of a total population of approximately
22 million, somewhere between 240,000 and 3,500,000 North Koreans died from starvation
or hunger-related illnesses, with the deaths peaking in 1997. Today, Kim Jong Un’s biggest nightmare is
the repetition of the Great Famine. Prof. Robert Kelly says the current Kim’s
invocation against the Great Famine on his ascension. North Korea has no elections, of course, so
there is no democratic legitimating mechanism for Kim’s rule. Instead, he seemed to settle on performance
legitimation: he would govern better than his father to earn popular support. Back then, in 2012, Kim was new to power and
likely vulnerable to his father’s retainers in the state and party. That Kim had not gone through the country’s
grooming institutions—the party and the army—only further removed him from the officials around him. Popularity with the population—a sense that
Kim would turn the page on his father’s disastrous administration and reform the country
(at least a bit)—could help establish his position as the new monarch. If Kim now feels comfortable enough to invoke
the worst period in North Korean history as a possible future—one he explicitly declaimed
would not return—then his autocracy must now be consolidated. That explicit reference suggests Kim does
not need to curry favor with his people anymore. He does not need them or any vague legitimacy from their approval. He has no internal opponents for whom a return
to the Great Famine would be evidence of his unfitness. Like his father and grandfather before him,
he is now a god-king, and if his people have to suffer mass death for him, then so be it. If Kim is the winner in this scenario—his
confidence in this evocation means he faces no challenge—then his population is, once again, the loser. The first famine resulted from Kim Jong-il’s
incompetence and fear of a coup; he allowed the army to debauch the budget, even as the public was starving to death. This one almost certainly flows from similar
incompetence, plus the deepening global isolation resulting from the drive for nuclear weapons. North Korea is now substantially cut-off from
the world economy, yet it will not alter its political economy—specifically, by reducing
its military spending—to accommodate that cut-off and help roll it back. In other words, this is another self-induced
wound from an elite that simply does not care if its population suffers. It does not sanction, but the choices of the
regime elite that has brought North Korea to the brink again: let them eat cake if that
is what’s necessary for the Kims to have nuclear weapons.
