(foreign language) - A group of French
tourists has just arrived in North Korea at a hotel
only for foreigners. We've slipped in amongst them. It's already 10:00 p.m. but we feel like taking
a little walk outside. The Porter follows us looking worried. (speaking in the background) He waves us back as
it's strictly forbidden to leave the hotel on your
own without an official guide. Nevertheless, we insist. - Thank you, stop stop stop. (foreign language) - No, no - The tone is polite but firm and reluctantly, we go back in. - Thank you. - Inside two North Korean dictators father and son dominate the lobby. Mr. Jon who works for the state and is in charge of the French group. - I wanted to go for a walk in town, but they said no. - No. (foreign language) - Because everyone knows you're a spy. (foreign language) Well, we've already arrested spies nearby. Here every foreigner is a potential spy. North Korea is the world's
most secretive state, and an example of the worst
kind of communist dictatorship. Since its creation in 1945,
the country has been living on another planet, acute paranoia and abject poverty are its
distinguishing features. There are no statistics
available for its economy, but what is known is that
famine is a constant threat to the population. In the late 90s of these
one million North Koreans are believed to have died of starvation. Even today, according
to the United nations 20% of the population
has little or no food, in particular those who
live in rural areas. It's the reason the world
food program distributes about 400,000 tons of food each year. (instrumental music) We managed to film these scenes in secret. Lacking machinery and even animals, local agriculture is
virtually non-existent. (instrumental music) People eat what they can find, seaweeds, roots, it's a starvation diet. (instrumental music) Officially the country is
still headed by Kim Il-sung, the dictator who died in 1994 but it's designated the eternal
president of North Korea. He's represented everywhere in the form of monumental statues, frescoes and posters. His son, Kim Jong-il succeeded him and is officially known
as the dear leader. He continues to wield almost
surreal autocratic powers, thanks largely to the backing
of an ever-growing army believed to be over a million
strong, massively equipped including with nuclear weapons and technically it's still
at war with South Korea. (instrumental music) Kim Jong-il continues
the work of destruction begun by his father. The result is people living
in conditions comparable to those in the Soviet
union during the 1930s. The same cues for the
few buses that have gas, the same empty stores, where
it is forbidden to film as the public never ventures inside. Not everything of course is so bleak. There are highways, but
use only by cyclists and the cleanups squads
clearing away the puddles. (instrumental music) There is even a casino in the Capitol where you can have fun with slot machines except there's never a jackpot. (instrumental music) And there's also golf that
most capitalists of sports enjoyed only by the system's elite. (instrumental music) For the 23 million North
Koreans, times are tough but smiling is mandatory. Outbursts of joy out
carefully choreographed in grandiose street parades. It's into this nightmare world inhabited by people
brainwashed since birth, that a group of Western tourists has decided to come on vacation. At eight and a half thousand
euros for three weeks. It's as expensive as the Seychelles. Only here, there's no
luxury, no coconut palms, only unfriendly minders
to check every photo. No mattresses in the bedrooms
and no running water. (foreign language) Lo, there even blankets in here, look. - Wow! - Wow, that's enough for me. and naturally surveillance
cameras to watch you. Welcome to North Korea,
the dictators paradise. The organizer of this
little trip of a lifetime is the man with blonde hair. Giom de Rudrey arranges speciality tours of the worst places on earth. In his group, is Claude,
for this young retiree it's the most significant
trip of her life. As for the first time, she's able to follow in the footsteps of her father who was originally from North Korea. Jacqueline had no qualms about accompanying her friend Claude, the former librarian now also retired. This will be her first experience
of a real dictatorship. There's also Henri who
prefers to remain anonymous. It's his first dictatorship, having already visited
and much enjoyed Iran. North Korea was missing
from his trophy cabinet until now. (instrumental music) Our minders are two French speaking guides in the glasses is Mr. Ho
and on the right Mr. Jon. (instrumental music) Three weeks are propaganda lie ahead. Pyongyang the DMZ, the demarcation line
between the two Koreas. The extreme North and the
coasts along the sea of Japan. The first Westerners to ever make such a remarkable journey. (instrumental music) Our trip to the land of communist bliss begins with an invitation
to share a joyful experience with the North Korean people. What, after all could be more appropriate than the gigantic lunapark, the
only funfair in the country. Here, everyone smiles, welcoming gestures, make the foreign visitor feel at home. The funfair features
attractions from another era, archery, games of skill with the balls as old as the players themselves. Ancient swings and rides
fitted with machine guns very popular with the adults and watched over by the supervisor. (orchestral playing) The infrastructure is creepily old and it doesn't look very safe, still nevermind, it'll take more than that to spoil the fun of the French group as it climbs onto the Ferris wheel On board, everyone is
obviously having a good time. (laughter) (foreign language) Are we still going? Yeah, running halfway Oh yeah yeah. Will you be okay? Now we stopped. (foreign language) Maybe we've broken down. (foreign language) Everything here is so quiet, not like the funfairs fairs back home where its so noisy. Henri, seems captivated by the calm good natured atmosphere of the fair even Mr. Ho, one of the
guides is enjoying the moment and wants to immortalize it. (foreign language) I'm filming the joy of this funfair. Crowns, Jostle proffering money around the cotton candy booth kids with money and even young rappers. Is this really North Korea, the world's most evil communist regime. (foreign language) Look, there's even the
riff-raff, it's unbelievable. (foreign language) Here there's a queue, not for
food, but for the bumper cars. Soon though, the harsh
realities of life in North Korea return when a group of
soldiers on leave appears (foreign language) Watch out, so there are
soldiers, no filming now. To find out why the soldiers are here, we follow along until we get
to a rather special booth. Mr. Jon, what's written up there? (foreign language) Down with the imperialists and down with the American aggressors. Really? Why is there still this
hate, the war is over. Oh, the Americans occupied our nation, they divided the country. (foreign language) But the peace has never been signed, it was just a ceasefire. (foreign language) The American started the war and our people really
suffered because of them. (foreign language) The grunts fire away with
toys at the lead soldiers but they are ready to fight for real. It's a war North Korea
has been preparing for since the state was founded 65 years ago and the sworn enemy is the United States. By 1950, the world was
beginning to painfully emerge from the Second World War. Two blogs faced off, the
communists and the pro Americans. Korea finds itself at the center of this ideological conflict
and is consumed by a war that will last for three years. The south is supported
by the United States, the north by China. In 1953, Korea is officially partitioned. Unto this day, no official
peace treaty has been signed, only a ceasefire. Technically the two
Koreas are still at war. It's a situation the French tourists will soon get to know more about. (foreign language) Right now were about to
enter into the two kilometers of the demilitarized zone of North Korea, which is used for farming and on the right is the
flag of North Korea. On the other side, just a few meters away is the enemy the traitors of South Korea. The tourists have to form a single file closely to be observed by the soldiers. The atmosphere is tense
and each photo is checked. This is the world's most sensitive area, surrounded by one million soldiers on both sides ready to do battle. (instrumental music) The small group finally arrives
at the demarcation line, the famous DMZ, it's a solemn moment. On both sides of the border
highlighted in red are guards. They don't look at each other,
but remain on the lookout. The first one who puts
a foot over the line will be immediately spotted by the slew of cameras and killed. The soldiers uniforms
are completely different. The retro style of the North Koreans and the Ray-Bans and U.S.
equipment of the south. (foreign language) The Americans are actually
in charge over there. On the South Korean side, a group of American generals arrives. They have their photos
taken with North Korea as a backdrop. It's as much as they'll ever likely see of the communist nation. (instrumental music) For the tourists, it's time to leave, but first Claude wants to
sign the visitors guest book. It's a very important
moment for the French woman with a Korean father and a French mother. Claude has made this journey in memory of her father. (foreign language) 89 years after my father
had to leave the country when she was occupied by the Japanese. I come to this demarcation
line that divides Korea. This division always caused
great sorrow to my father, who never saw his native land again. (instrumental music) - Claude's father fled Korea in 1920 long before the communist regime. The photo was taken shortly
before he found refuge in France. He was never able to return
to his country of birth. It's an emotional moment, so, the tourists are soon reminded they are in a state where
everything is controlled. Their guides and the soldiers demand to see the photographs
taken at the border. many will be erased. (car engine starts) To the tourist this
unrelenting surveillance comes with the territory and so far, none of them complained. (instrumental music) The tour continues following the program put together by the
North Korean authorities. And the next stop is the war museum. At the end of the courtyard, an old woman is cleaning the stones. Suddenly one of the guides assistance forces her to leave. (instrumental music) She was spoiling the scenery by being poor and that is something outsiders
aren't meant to see here, for the very image of
the country is at stake. An image of perfection that nothing is allowed to distort and an image that is constantly monitored. (foreign language) Hello, welcome to our museum. Behind her as a gigantic mural as one would expect to
the glory of Kim Il-sung, the founder of North Korea. He has a godlike status,
not least because he himself rewrote his country's
entire recent history. (foreign language) - Please sit down, we have a
film now about the Korean war and this will help explain
the Korean problem. - Visitors to the museum are served the rather partisan version of the conflict with the United States. It's a version of which the Americans are definitely the bad guys. (instrumental music) The voice, the style, the
video, everything resembles a bad propaganda film in the 1950s. (foreign language) Who then started the war in Korea? These scenes will help provide the answer. Listen to how North Korean authorities have rewritten history. (foreign language) The Second World War
earned the United States huge amounts of money
through the sale of weapons. (orchestral music) But after the war, the United
States lost its weapons market and entered into a period
of deep economic crisis. (foreign language) They then deliberately
started the war in Korea to help their economy. And they actively prepared for war. Everything is false, the United States has never been as prosperous as it was after the Second World War, but it matters not and the documentary carriers determinately
on in the same tone. Truman, the U.S. president,
declared in a message to Congress in 1945 that there needed to be a war in Korea so the United States
could dominate the world. In fact, it's the exact opposite. Historians agreed North
Korea triggered the war. The reality, the regime in
Pyongyang categorically denies and being the perfect dictatorship is something it teaches
all children in the country from an early age. (instrumental music) The tourists are stunned but
decide as best to say nothing, not one word. Obediently, they continued the tour where more surprises are in-store. At the double Lake cross rooms filled with war photos and posters. The rewriting of history continues. (speaker translating) The Americans staged air
raids in the China sea to bomb the towns and villages and massacre the Chinese people. Henri has never heard
about Americans massacring the people of China. He takes his carriage in
both hands and wades in. (foreign language) Excuse me, in which year
more or less did this happen? Which year was this battle? (foreign language) The battle, it was during
the war in 1950 to 53. Okay, so there's no precise date, just during the conflict as a whole. The answer is evasive and
makes all drawer up short, but he does go no further and
is teased by a journalist. You didn't follow up
the question, did you? You were scared. I Just don't have the courage to. North Korea is a totalitarian state which scares even the foreigners. The country has virtually
no international friends. And if you get into trouble
here, there will be no diplomats coming to demand your release. The young woman is waiting
for us in another room. Inside real ships and aircraft, the propaganda lesson continues. This is the weapons room where
some of the original weapons are on show. These all distinguish
themselves during the war like this torpedo boat. It's was one of four of
which sank the U.S. cruiser, the Baltimore. (foreign language) While the young soldier
recites her lessons, we dare ask a sensitive question. Where are the same ones used recently to also sink the South Korean warship? You know, there was a South
Korean boat that was sunk. It was just the first
time I hear about that. Yes, we're never heard of that. Only a few weeks earlier,
the South Korea Naval vessel had been sunk off the coast of Pyongyang. On board 46 sailors were killed. Tensions between the two
countries was at its highest just when the French
tourist group was visiting. Following our off-camera question, we were summoned and
spoken to for several hours by North Korean agents who warned us never to repeat
such questions in the future under penalty of having
to extend our stay here for several months. But for now, we'll proceeds
as if nothing ever happened. The museum guide continues her tour but the mood has changed. She proudly presents one of
the air Force's old fighters. This plane is a MIG, it was visited by comrade
Kim Il-sung in 1952. The aircraft to make it 15
has been in continuous service in North Korea since 1952 as
this video shot at the airport by our reporter seems to show. It's an aging military, but
one which should not be taken as likely as shown in the last room. Now in this area, we have
captured enemy weapons as our trophies. All these weapons are being used in action like machine guns, helmets,
flags, tanks, or helicopters, an Aladdin's cave of implements of death. It's also yet another opportunity to portray the wickedness
of the Americans. They used chemical and biological weapons. During the war, this plane was shot down while it was dropping
bacteriological bombs. True or false, it's impossible to get beyond the blatant propaganda. The highlight of the visit,
let's say for the end a huge mural depicting the battle of soul. The limelight, focusing
on the heroic soldiers who saved the communist
North Korean regime and protect it to this very day. The tourists are beginning to understand where they actually are. Tired, they returned to the hotel. It's rush hour but oncoming
vehicles surprise people. Everyone is heading home from work and quietly gathers to wait for their bus. Are people queuing to get into a stadium? They are waiting for the bus. Pyongyang, never has traffic jams. In the middle of the road a
woman is clearing broken glass. There was an accident here and
everything must be cleaned up as soon as possible. On the left, the large building
it's the people's palace and this is the city's main thoroughfare, what passes for rush hour. A few buses are packed and
look as if they're about to fall apart. On the roadside there's no advertising, but huge propaganda posters
for the communist regime. We see men proud of building the future in this perfect country. A country in which the women are there purely to raise the children. The two towers on the right, is the hotel, one of the most luxurious in the country. Inside are the restaurant
and notably a TV set constantly tuned in to
national television. The programs consist of patriotic songs before a military audience. Generals making speeches, a documentary or naturally Kim Jong-il and how best to use a Kalashnikov. (foreign language) The French appeared to pay
no attention whatsoever. Back in their rooms, the tourists discover they themselves are not allowed to send emails even to their families. All here is dictated by the state and the laws make it obligatory
to give the email addresses of the recipients to a local official. Henri seems to find nothing
wrong with a strict new rules. I told my friends beforehand, that well, no news is good news. (foreign language) Well, you know, the country is cut off from the rest of the world. The following morning,
Pyongyang is waking up the same background music
is broadcast every day, beginning of dawn. It's not yet six o'clock in the morning. The sky is dark and by the opaque swells from the blast furnace plants. Already small hands are busy scrubbing the still deserted streets. A woman is directing non-existent traffic her movements those of a puppet gone mad. Everything must be perfect, in this the capital of
the communist regime. (slow music) But the extreme poverty of the
country is difficult to hide. between two rows of buildings, there's a curious sort of vehicle, the septic tank on wheels,
which used to be a truck. A few steps away a group of men head shaved, dressed identically practicing their morning
exercises in rhythm. That's North Korea, a crazy contraption who's wield somehow keeps
turning 60 years on. In a country where religion is banned, there is however a god. He's called Kim Il-sung, the local Stalin. He ruled the country from
1945 until his death in 1994. His Image is everywhere in the country. Statues, photographs, murals. More powerful than a mere life president, he appointed himself
president in eternity. Unlike everyone else in the country, the French tourists will
have to pay him homage. What do you do with those flowers? I'll lay them in front of
the statute of Kim Il-sung. Next is the approach to the
statue of the great leader. At more than 15 meters
high, it's hard to miss. It's solid, bronze and surrounded
by a mural in his honor. The protocol is precise,
the ritual formal. We stop here, but first,
we'll put the flowers down and then come back. So go and place your
bouquets the three of you. Step back a bit altogether now in a line. (foreign language) and then we count to three
and in three everyone bows. How many times? Only once, right? We bow, one, two, three. Paying tribute to one
of the worst dictators of modern times doesn't
seem to upset Jacqueline. I love it. Saluting a dictator? It's amazing. You know, the Asians like to bow, even when just say hello to each other, everyone does it in Asia. What if we have to bow
before president Sarkozy back in France, how would you feel? - I wouldn't do it. I don't like the cultural personality. Well, maybe for Carla. (upbeat music) - After the French group,
the carousel continues, another group of Koreans arrives for the obligatory pilgrimage. A perfect salute, and it's time
for the cleaners to move in to tidy up for the next party. And so it goes every hour,
every day of the week. (instrumental music) For now, the tourists visit
is passing off smoothly. The North Korean guides are
able to show off their country in the best light. It's a far cry from the more
usual image of a dictatorship teetering on the edge. The tour of the communist
paradise continues. Next step the pizzeria, the
only pizzeria in the country. Dining there is a privilege
reserved for the elite and the few foreign visitors. This restaurant is essentially a whim created on the express
orders of Kim Jong-Il, the North Korean dictator
simply because he loves pizza. And of course, as in any
hotspot filming is forbidden. (foreign language) Everything started because he
liked Italian food so much. And then he had an Italian chef from Naples come over for several years. And then he said to himself, well, listen, why not train a Korean chef in Italy? So the chef left for a little
time to get the training. And then an Italian, the
expert came to examine the kitchens here. And at the beginning,
the Italian chef said, no, it's not right, we need to carry on until we find the perfect recipe. The only pizza man in all of North Korea will prepare the tourists dinner. In the kitchens, the
staff heat up the oven, despite two power cuts. The pizza man is one of
the dictator's favorites, one of the few North
Koreans to have been allowed to leave the country. - Two years ago, I got the Italian for to learn in pizza. - Okay, thank you. - A cheese and ham pizza
will cost about five euros. Yom comments that in this land of famine, it's not every day that you
can eat as well as this. You know, this is the only
chance we'll get to eat cheese in this country, so enjoy it. Payments is in dollars or euros,
but not the local currency which foreigners aren't allowed to use. North Korea might be opening up a little and not because of the pizza business. People are now allowed to amuse themselves boating on the river Tidong
or pets like this little dog. Rollerblading youngsters can
be seen on people's square. And mobile phones are
no longer a rare sight, although only local calls are allowed. There are even places where
people can have a good time bowling, pool, all assigned
the regime relaxing a little and highlighting the growing influence of consumer products imported
from their ally, China. The tourists pay scant
attention to these changes. What they want is tradition. Souvenir hunting takes them to the Pyongyang embroidery Institute. But when they arrive,
there's some bad news. There's no sign of any embroiderers I want to refund and there never will be. Can we see just one or
two embroiders at work? Just one, just one. Are there any ancient examples
of embroidery in the museum? Yes. Oh good. The only evidence of
the famous embroideries is these two little kittens in the dark. It's difficult to make anything out, a lighter isn't bright enough and it's impossible to enjoy the works. on the stairs an employee
finally arrives with a flashlight but even that doesn't help. So the only option is
to take the embroidery towards the light. - It's very pretty. I mean, if you could
make it out, of course At 150 euros, Mr. Ho, the
guide is trying to make a sale. - It's painstaking work
and it's very pretty but it's not handmade. And the tourists are disappointed and don't need to be asked
twice about complaining. It's very disappointing. Workers have apparently gone
out, there is no electricity and the Institute as a whole
is really disappointing. We didn't see any old
examples, no clothes. Well, maybe one or two, nothing really. They realized that here things really aren't the same as at home. Information is not freely available. Everything is filtered, controlled by the totalitarian regime. The internet is totally prohibited. At the central library of Pyongyang, there are plenty of computers but are they connected to the internet? A quick test on Google gives us an equally quick
answer, no response, nothing. There is no network because
the authorities won't allow it. They want to control the
minds of their citizens and it starts at a very young age. (children singing) In the streets, children
much younger than six are already learning to march in step chanting patriotic songs to the glory of the great leader, Kim. A few blocks away, a kindergarten. These kids aren't singing
but having fun on slides and other playground games all of which appear in perfect condition. Again, the image of happiness and Henri who has just had
a little chat with a guide is under their spell. He told me about the youngsters in town and it's not like in France, you wouldn't see young
homeless people sleeping rough. And certainly no kids who take drugs here and the children respect their teachers. And all I can say really
is yeah, it's true. Poverty is carefully hidden
from the eyes of foreigners and almost impossible to film. By contrast model schools
are a perfect showcased to present to tourists. (children applauding) Inside the children are beautiful, polite and always smiling. (children singing) The teaching tools are incredible in this room the kids learn to recognize the country's fruit trees. A little further, a
collection of stuffed animals that collection of all the local wildlife. What better way to teach
children to recognize them. As a brief show for the benefit
of the admiring tourists. (children chatting) The headmistress calmly
continues the visit. The kids welcome the visitors
warmly if not spontaneously. In this class children under five are learning about the major episodes in the life of Kim Il-sung, which are then recited with (indistinct) (foreign language) (children singing) Using a video, the teacher
adds a few details. (foreign language) The eternal president can be
proud of these little kids. Through them the socialist
future of the country is assured. Their brain's already conditioned to obey. (applause) Claude who was a teacher all her life is struck by these methods of teaching. They learn a lot by heart. They learn everything about history, about the president,
about the great leader. And they start when they're
just three years old to teach them about where
he was born, where he lived what he did and everything is repeated. They repeat everything until
it's fixed in their mind. I still remember the
first thing I ever had to recite at school. Ho makes sure what she says
can't be heard by the guide who is nearby. This room is the dormitory
where the children can take afternoon naps as
well as sleeping at nighttime. From the age of five
they spend all week here, never going home. The state takes over the role of parent. A little further other
children play dance and sing amongst some fantastic toys. The military influences will pervasive exact replicas of make fighters. Some kids dressed as army officers while others board a huge electric train. It's better than any Western school. So much happiness and good humor, you almost have to pinch
yourself to believe it. It's tough to criticize when presented with so many happy little faces. To conclude the quick tour
of this model of education, there's nothing like a little show. (instrumental sound) (foreign language) (instrumental music) It features a gifted young violinist. (instrumental music) Kids are all made up all
repeat the choreography, learn by heart and all
behave like miniature adults. Guitarists, twirling
dancers, virtuoso singers. Everything stage managed
to the tiniest detail. Even the smiles appear forced
for these little puppets, meant to embodied the
ideals of North Korea. Hundreds of hours of work
must have gone into this to achieve these sort of results (children singing) To finish on a high piano solo by a five-year-old who
reproduces every gesture of the professional concert pianist. (playing piano) The French tourists are enthusiastic. Did you like it? Oh yes, it was magnificent. (foreign language) The visit to the kindergarten is now over. We'd just like to thank the headmistress. Thank you. (foreign language) I was reminded of my own childhood when we always did what
the school master said, and we would never have dared misbehave like run about or make noise. It reminds me a bit of what it was like back in the 1960s and 70s. In the yard, the sign
catches our attention and slightly dampens recent enthusiasm. A guy translates the slogan on the poster. (foreign language) - They are wanting to be
soldiers for Korea kingdom. It's the kind of slogan
that reminds everyone they are in a dictatorship, a dictatorship in which the
army plays a major role. 25% of GDP is spent on the military. One of the highest rates in the world. That's 10 to 15 times
more in percentage terms than most European nations. In all it's estimated there
are one million troops ready to do battle at the
slightest sign of aggression. And old style army from the Stalin era, with hundreds of
thousands of foot soldiers both men and women tanks
and missile launches (choir music) And completely obsolete fighter aircraft. Yet the North Korean army
is not entirely outdated. Since 2006 Pyongyang has the nuclear bomb. This is precisely why North Korea so scary and why even the United States
refrains from attacking. It's something that makes Mr. Jon one of the guides, very proud. We feel very good about
having such a strong national defense. For example, we have now managed to possess our own nuclear weapons. They're heavily armed
and very secret country. And now we're on our way
to one of North Korea's most mysterious regions. The North near the border with China. An old twin engine plane
awaits us on the tarmac. It's owned by Air Koryo,
which is on the blacklist of airlines banned from flying in Europe. - Hello - It's a two hour flight over mountains, still covered with snow making the journey to her father's homeland in the
North is why Claude is here. We're now close to Siberia and you feel it in the temperature. Foreigners are usually not allowed. And in this special area, we
now receive special treatment. Three new guides join us. The slightest movement or
even the slightest word will be monitored and if
necessary, reprimanded. We're on our way now to Mount Paektu, the highest point of the country, it's 2,750 meters in altitude. And after the winter, we're the first visitors to come by car, which is why there are no
tire marks in the road. Actually the road is barely possible. and it's not long before
there's some bad news. We can't go up to Mount Paektu. It's dangerous and you can
see that for yourselves. If we slide over, is all over. There are still 28 kilometers
to go over ice and snow that's impossible. Claude is hardly surprised though. The Southern roads closed. Yes, it's only to be expected
seeing the amount of snow that's around and they
have no machines here to clear it or any salt. The vehicles aren't properly equipped. There's no snow chains or special tires and they just don't clear the snow. (foreign language) Can we just run some snow rackets? In the absence of a sacred mountain, the tourists at least
tried to visit the village. It looks deserted. Like an abandoned show village. Where all the inhabitants? Well there's no smoke or anything. Where are the people? Only a can of cooking oil
proves that there were people here at once, we'll never find out more. Mr. Jon immediately intervenes
and it's back on the bus. Well, I guess we'll just go and have lunch at the hotel then. - What time is it by the way, lunchtime? Rather than meeting with residents, the tourists will be subjected to another onslaught about
the life of the dictator. It's cold and damp and some of the group are beginning to tire
of being manipulated. To begin with the photos taken during this latest trip are deleted. A young woman dressed in military uniform is waiting to welcome them to the sacred site where Kim Jong-il, the regimes current strong man was born. Smoking here is strictly forbidden. (foreign language) - One more minute. - One more minute. - First we will visit the
house where he was born and on the way back, we'll go that way. This house is where Kim
Jong-il was supposedly born, the shrine that has to be respected. (foreign language) Oh, please, don't stand on that. We're told the dictator was born here and there were guerrilla
forces in the region. Claude who knows the
history of the country refuses to swallow this crude propaganda. (foreign language) He was born on the other side
of the border, wasn't he? Yes, he took refuge over there. There were never any
gorillas here, in fact that. That's just propaganda then. Yes is written somewhere Kim
Il-sung created the gorillas in 1920, 1920 he was only eight years old. I mean do they think we're idiots. I mean, it's incredible. I mean, it must've been at least 12. Claude regrets having dared
openly criticized the regime, especially as all around them are dozens of surveillance cameras. They had what we said. Do you think they're
microphones hidden everywhere? They'll translate it. Her friend Jacqueline whispering decides to make an unorthodox comparison to the local political system. (foreign language) - It seems like we're in a fairy tale, only that the story never ends. The ogre is still alive. Still, so long as we're not eaten up, well, I guess that's fine. Oh, look, there's another
house that looks the same here. Henri for his part has no such issues. He loves everything
and is keen to show it. But even he is amazed when
the guide in the pouring rain launches into a patriotic
song about the great leader having to leave home and family. (the guide singing) (foreign language) Very nice, thank you. That was good, everyone sings well here. You know, Kim IL sung wrote that song. As to the many statues of the dictator, Henri salutes them without
even being asked to. The minders can't get over it. (foreign language) You're doing it with me now. Okay, I'll do it again. - Mr. Ho is delighted with this Frenchman who behaves like a true
supporter of the regime. A few kilometers further on, yet another bronze statue
in the middle of nowhere. Again, it's to the glory of the dictator, again with giant warlike, frescoes, Claude has had enough of
this cult of a personality. This is just all too much. What do you mean? Well, by the size, the
style, the way they are made. Their cult, it's everywhere. Henri, of course disagrees. But you need to remember that
this really is an art form. (foreign language) Yes, but I mean they're all the same even the way they sing
the songs, you know. (foreign language) No, but from the urban point of view, all the perspectives are respected and everything is ordered. (foreign language) You know what it reminds me
of what Hitler wanted to do. Yes in Berlin his plans with spear, was exactly the same kind of thing. I mean, I've seen the models. Well, I just can't get to
like that sort of style or architecture. No, me neither. Comparing the Pyongyang regime to Hitler, Claude is really letting loose. When it's time to leave
the bus will not start. Fortunately, a group of soldiers pass by, at least a dozen helping push the vehicle. Their assistance, cheers up Henri. (instrumental music) We've been in North Korea
for more than a week but have so far still been
unable to talk directly with ordinary Koreans. This will change though, as
we head to the countries coast along the sea of Japan with a promise of sleeping
at the local's house and being able to move about freely. But the reality is quite different. Like all the countries shores, the areas classified as top security. To prove it, the road is lined
by electrified barbed wire which is there to protect
against a possible landing by the South Koreans or Americans. It's forbidden, for example,
to film this village. It's impossible to see what's
behind this white fence. Even Giom who has organized trips there for the past 10 years, finds us too much. They make me cross, they
really make me cross. Why? Even a photo like this. Look, they don't like it,
they really go too far. And I mean, if it's
going to stay like this, I'll never plan anymore,
visits this region. So they bother even you then. I'm going to really complain
when we get back to Pyongyang. It's too much. I understand they don't want the pictures of military installations,
that kind of thing. But this is just the countryside. As usual, Mr. Jon has a ready explanation this time to justify all the security, You know on the beaches on the coast it's not allowed to take pictures everywhere around here as a military zone. Too bad for the tourists who
will however still will be able to spend a night with the locals. It's an extremely rare privilege
in this paranoid country. Except that everything here is false. The village was built
purely to accommodate foreign visitors. (foreign language) This village was built for people that come here to, to see Mount Chilbo. (foreign language) - Okay. - All right, so it's a
very nice special village with nice houses and the
people here are lucky. As for the residents, they've obviously been carefully selected. This woman for example, is
part of the regimes elite. The evidence, she had the incredible honor of meeting Kim Jong-il, the leader. An honor that is no coincidence. Since this charming lady is considered the one of the best mums in the country as Mr. Ho explains. (foreign language) From time to time we organized
mother's conferences. We select mothers who have
raised their children very well and in the proper socialist way. Rather than endure yet more propaganda, the tourists plot their escape. The beach is not far, it's
too good and an opportunity to escape the minders. For the first time we glimpse
the true face of North Korea, the grinding poverty that
is destroying the country and that must remain hidden. On the beach women are picking up seaweed, caked in sand and stuffing
it into old sacks. The seaweed will be served up for eating. We are soon tracked down
by one of our guides. - We can go there. We can go to the fishing there. - We want to see the fishing man. - You come with us, we
go to the fishing boat. With you, with you, with you. Oh please. - I have no permission. I have no ability to go forward. And if you go with me and
if you go along this road and afterwards I... - Okay, okay, okay. - The gesture has the merit
of being clear, at least. The man will risk his life
if the law isn't respected. - This in the inside (indistinct). - Down there, he says
there's another village. And this time we are promised assured and guaranteed that
photos will be allowed. At the entrance there's
a slightly odd map. The architecture is
apparently typical Korean. The tourist seemed to perk up a little. Oh, it's nice, I love it. I've taken lots of photos this morning. It's beautiful and cleaned. There's even a small demonstration of traditional local cuisine. But again, everything is stage-managed and totally artificial. Nobody lives here. The tourists never see any North Koreans apart from some employees who are not allowed to talk to them. We find a small passageway
that leads outside but it's useless, someone is
always there to block our path. - No. (foreign language) Oh, we walk outside over
there, go to the market? No, no, no, first we need
to drop off the bags. Okay, well I'll take a
walk outside in the street and come back a little bit later. No, no, We go together,
the door is locked now. Why? I can go that way, I've
seen another way out. No, no, you can't it's not allowed. No, no, we won't give permission for that. (foreign language) - Mr. Jon, Mr. Ho said
I could go for a walk for a few minutes outside. - No, he never said that. Okay, I'll go to the library then. It's not possible. I know what you're up to. At least I tried. Mr. Jon, our guide isn't fooled. He knows the rules and
the considerable risks no images of real life. This fake village is a
snapshot of the country, a prison from which you cannot escape. The solid wooden doors remain
close to all North Koreans. A third generation of
Kim's will almost suddenly continue to rule. Indeed, Kim Jong-un, the 27 year old son of the current dictator
has been named his heir.
