In the Wild West, there were many ways to
make a quick buck: busking, husking, hog-wrangling, hornswoggling, honey-fuggling, jug-honeying,
ho-downing, horse-crowning, and of course, counterfeiting. You see, before 1861, the dollar bills that
we know and love were not standardized or issued by the US federal government. Instead, more than 1500 private banks across
the country distributed their own bills, with their own unique designs, under charters from
individual states. With upwards of 7,000 different-looking bills
in circulation—which varied widely in quality and reliability—it was pretty easy to just
hand some guy a 5-dollar Monopoly bill, tell him you got it from that bank down on Baltic
avenue, and walk away with your cowboy hat or steamboat or whatever it was that 5 dollars
could buy in 1860. The problem was so bad, in fact, that directly
after the Civil War, it’s estimated that somewhere between a third and half of all
US currency was counterfeit. That number is now believed to be well below
0.01%—only the most intricate and highly-engineered fakes can stay in circulation these days,
and these sorts of bills require resources at the scale of an entire nation to pull off
convincingly: that’s where North Korea comes in. “But hold on,” you might say. “What resources, exactly? I mean, I have paper, I have a printer, and
I have a pretty good idea of what a 20 dollar bill looks like, isn’t that enough?” Well, outrageously stupid viewer that I made
up to segue into this section of the video, no. While our paper notes might seem fairly primitive,
the US minting process is surprisingly costly, complex, and difficult to replicate. There are a number of reasons for this, but
arguably the most important is that our paper money is not really made of paper. They’re actually a blend of 75% cotton,
25% linen, and a handful of red and blue “security fibers” that are woven-in randomly throughout
the bill. This unique blend not only makes these bills
ideal for a light summertime topsheet, but also gives them a distinct feel that can’t
be achieved by any other material. As for the printing process, the Treasury
uses a hugely-expensive intaglio printing press, where ink is applied to a metal plate
that’s then pressed into the paper with 20,000 pounds of pressure per square inch—this
allows for a process called “microprinting,” where tiny, nearly-invisible words are hidden
throughout the bill. On denominations higher than the one dollar
bill—which hasn’t changed since 1929 due to the cut-throat vending machine lobby, a
fact that my writer came up with as a dumb joke, but then later learned is actually the
real reason—the security features get even more advanced. All bills five and above have an invisible
security thread woven into the fabric, that, if exposed to UV light, glow a different color
depending on the bill: blue for five, orange for ten, green for twenty, yellow for fifty,
pink for a hundred, and turquoise for if you’ve been laundering all of your money in a bucket
of Mountain Dew Baja Blast. These bills also feature subtle watermarks
that can be seen if held up to a bright light, and bills ten and above use a magnetic color-shifting
ink in the bottom-right corner that changes from copper to green when tilted. In short, accurately copying one of these
bills is expensive, and doing so to turn a profit is nearly impossible. But sometime in the late 1980s, North Korea’s
Room 39—the clandestine office that maintains the country’s slush fund through meth production,
insurance scams, and, yes, counterfeiting—set out to produce perfect hundred dollar bills
in a large enough volume that the operation would be profitable. By 1990, Kim Il-Sung had sourced an identical
intaglio printing press from Japan, cloth paper with the same iconic red and blue fibers
from Hong Kong, magnetic, color-shifting ink from France, and a terrified workforce from
his very own home country, because it’s important to keep manufacturing local—good
on you, Kim! The notes that Room 39 produced became known
as “superdollars,” because their only discernible flaws, if any, were that they
were actually too perfect. For example, this line on the base of this
lamppost on the back of the hundred dollar bill is a little faded on the real deal, whereas
Kim took the artistic liberty of filling it back in one version of the superdollar. On another version, the clock hands on Independence
Hall stay inside the inner circle, whereas on the real bill they poke out just a smidge. By 2006, there were estimated to be 19 different
variations of the superdollar in circulation, each bearing a unique, nearly-unnoticeable
flaw. Not all of these variants can be traced back
to North Korea, though—in 2002, a British crime syndicate was caught printing superdollars
on a smaller scale, and some have also accused the CIA of producing a variant for off-the-books
operations… of course, we’re not accusing them of that, because, uh, this is a channel
about bricks. Anyways… for many decades, these supernotes
made the US treasury quake in their fancy coin-studded boots. While it might not seem like a big deal for
North Korea to print some extra cash to not feed people with, foreign counterfeiting operations
have long been considered an act of war. In World War II, for example, Hitler had seriously
considered a plan to bomb Britain with piles of counterfeit cash, hoping to inflate their
economy and cause it to collapse. Fortunately—or unfortunately, if you’re
watching this from Pyongyang—the hundred dollar bill got another high-tech redesign
in 2013, and the trickle of superdollars out of Room 39 has seemingly, as far as we know,
come to a halt. If you happen to have some superdollars just
laying around for… uh… reasons, you should not use them to get HelloFresh, specifically
because I feel like our sponsor would not appreciate us telling you to use shadily acquired
North Korean counterfeit currency to buy them. However, in any other circumstance, you should
really try them out. I’ve been using HelloFresh for over a year,
long before they became a sponsor, and even have these hundreds of recipe-pages to prove
it. I started using them because I used to be
a take-out addict—I found I just didn’t have the time to make a meal from scratch
each night—but take-out is unhealthy and expensive. With HelloFresh, I get healthy, delicious,
and quick meal kits delivered straight to my door each week, which typically take about
30 minutes to make. For example, this week I made the Bulgogi
Pork Tenderloin—one of my favorite meals, which I always pick when it’s an option. Best of all, you can to HelloFresh.com and
use code HAI12 to get 12 free meals, including free shipping, and you’ll be helping to
support HAI while you’re at it.
