A North Korean soldier defects to the South
in the most unexpected way: Crossing the border at the heavily guarded Joint Security Area. As troops stationed in the frontline are believed
to be chosen for their loyalty, this could severely bruise the regime's military pride. He was shot at by men from his side, but was
picked up by South Korean soldiers and was taken to the hospital. For details on the daring escape, we turn
to our Kwon Jang-ho The Joint Security Area --
located on the border between the two Koreas and the only place where soldiers from the
two sides stand face-to-face. And at three-thirty-one PM on Monda, a lone
North Korean soldier ran from a guard post on the northern side, and crossed over the
Military Demarcation Line into South Korean territory. The soldier suffered from gunshot wounds to
his shoulder and elbow from North Korean forces while defecting. Upon hearing the shots, South Korean soldiers
raised the alarm, but the defector was not discovered until 25 minutes later, collapsed
on the ground, 50-meters from the border and bleeding from his wounds. (Korean)
Our soldiers safely retrieved the defector, and urgently evacuated him to hospital to
treat his injuries. He was airlifted by a United Nations Command
helicopter to Ajou University Medical Center in Suwon, just south of Seoul, where he underwent
surgery. The defector is thought to be in his twenties
or thirties, and wore a uniform of low rank. Defecting through the JSA is extremely rare,
with only two previous instances in 1998 and 2007. South Korean authorities have reassured that
there was no altercation between South and North Korean soldiers, but added that Seoul
will remain alert to any possible provocations. It's been almost two months since North Korea
last carried out a ballistic missile test, or any other provocation, and many have hoped
that this signalled an easing of tensions on the peninsula. It's currently unclear what response Pyongyang
will give to Monday's incident. Kwon Jang-ho, Arirang News.
