Life in North Korea is almost unimaginable
for a person in the West. The Hermit Nation is so closed-off that some
people there still aren't aware that humans have been to the Moon. Because the DPRK is so secretive, it's hard
to separate myths from facts when it comes to its citizens' daily lives. In the past we've looked at how the average
North Korean person compares to people in both South Korea and the US, but what about
dating? If you're single and ready to mingle in North
Korea, how do you go about finding a hot date? North Korea is a country that is, in many
ways, stuck in the past, and romance is no exception. Officially, the country's stance on love is
highly conservative and utilitarian. Public displays of affection, however small,
are largely frowned upon, and citizens are encouraged to reject decadent capitalist notions
of romance in favour of treating your partner the same way that you treat all your fellow
revolutionary comrades. But, as one anonymous defector explained in
a Guardian article titled 'Dating: North Korean Style'- “although the government succeeded
in getting rid of these basic human rights, it couldn’t prevent its people from falling
in love.” Over time, the state's attitude towards romance
has softened, and most younger citizens no longer hold such restrictive ideas on courtship. In fact, North Korea has even started allowing
romantic comedies. In 2012, the British-Belgian-North Korean
co-production Comrade Kim Goes Flying - the story of a coal miner joining the circus and
falling in love with one of her fellow acrobats - was a smash-hit when it premiered in Pyongyang. However, this isn't to say that finding love
in the DPRK is as easy as it is in the state-approved movies. It's still a largely impoverished nation ruled
over by an oppressive communist regime that restricts and controls almost every aspect
of human life. For example, if you're a North Korean teenager
and you want to take your crush out after school, you’d better be sneaky about it,
because relationships are expressly forbidden for young people. There is little or no sex education in schools,
and most teenagers in the country rely on information from parents, siblings, and friends
to figure out the birds and the bees. Some aren't even lucky enough to get that. Dr. Andrei Lankov, a professor of Korean studies
and columnist for The Korea Times, explains in an interview for The Mirror, “Some North
Korean females who became young adults in the 1970s and 1980s recall that, until their
early 20s, they thought that holding hands with a male for too long could lead to pregnancy.” But, regardless of what country they live
in, teenagers are teenagers, and many of them get around the 'no dating' rules by scheduling
dates in the park after nightfall, or in the basements of their apartment complexes, and
in some cases hooking up at larger social gatherings, like birthday parties, where friends
can easily cover for them. Once you're out of school, restrictions on
dating become less strict, but there's another hurdle to jump over for any lonely North Koreans
looking for love: Military service. True to form for a highly militarised communist
nation, North Korea has mandatory conscription for all males, and selective conscription
for females, between the ages of 15 and 30. In 1993, the length of mandatory service was
extended from eight years to ten, meaning that once you've been drafted, you're in it
for the long haul. The anonymous defector writing in the Guardian
article cites this as the reason his first relationship fell through- “despite our
good relationship, she ended up joining the military and I was left behind.” Even though both men and women serve in the
military, celibacy is expected of all enlistees for at least the first 10 years of voluntary
service. Furthermore, the selective nature of female
conscription means that only one in ten North Korean conscripts are female, so if you're
a male conscript seeking a special lady, your odds aren't very good. Men interested in men don't have it much easier,
though. While homosexuality isn't technically illegal
in North Korea, it isn't fully accepted, either, and being openly gay is considered to be frivolous
and anti-communist. Affairs and relationships can and do still
happen between soldiers of any gender combination, but given that both conscripts and voluntary
enlistees are expected to train every day from 5 am to 10 pm, grow their own food to
supplement their paltry rations, and only take 2 weeks’ vacation in their entire military
service, one can expect that the North Korean military isn't the best place to start a workplace
romance. So, if you had to break up with your high
school sweetheart after getting drafted, and you failed to make a connection with any of
your fellow soldiers, how will you find someone once your 10 years of service have ended? In the free world, we might take to hook-up
apps and dating sites like Tinder or Plenty of Fish, but – as you might have expected
– North Koreans have to do things a little differently. The majority of North Korea is still rural,
and as we mentioned before, electricity still isn't universally accessible, let alone cell
phones with 4G connection. The internet is available in North Korea,
but only to a select group of government elites. For everyone else, there's North Korea's state
sanctioned intranet, known as Kwangmyong, a word which translates to 'bright star' in
English. This primitive network, powered by bootleg
Japanese software and run exclusively on North Korean-made computers, is accessible only
in offices, universities and internet cafes, mainly in Pyongyang. If you go to one of these places and get onto
Kwangmyong, what kinds of things can you expect to find? Well, not very much, as it turns out. As reported by Vice's Lorenzo Franceschi-Bicchierai,
an accidental server leak revealed to the outside world that North Korea is home to
only 28 websites. Most are propaganda news sites and official
websites for government agencies and universities, but there's also movie site korfilm.com.kp,
a couple of Facebook clones, and Manbang: North Korea's only video streaming service. But, unfortunately, none of the 28 registered
.com.kp domains are dating websites, so if you're looking for some Manbang and chill,
you'll have to go offline. Officially speaking, North Korea has no nightlife. Outside of national holiday celebrations,
almost no state-sanctioned partying exists in the Hermit Kingdom. However, North Koreans still find ways to
have fun despite strict regulations. When posed the question of North Korean nightlife
as part of NK News' Ask a North Korean series, defector Je Son Lee described North Korea's
underground party scene. Lee said, “No matter whether you're living
in North Korea, South Korea or the United States, appreciation for arts, sports, affection
and friendship exist in every country people live in”. Underground social clubs often pop up in abandoned
houses that have been thoroughly soundproofed and fitted with oil-powered generators, usually
borrowed from factories where the would-be clubbers work during the day. Many clubs play contraband pop music from
both South Korea and the United States. Others opt for a more lo-fi solution and host
live singing and acoustic guitar performances, allowing party hosts to quickly change the
set list to state-sanctioned music without suspicion if they suspect a police raid. On the more salacious side of things, while
prostitution is still outlawed in the DPRK, the rise of the new market economy since the
1990's has made it much easier for sex workers to make money than it was previously. Dr. Lankov explains that, during the reign
of Kim Il Sung, sex work was more or less non-existent. Due to rampant poverty and government corruption,
it wasn't unheard of for people to exchange sexual favours for food and supplies, or sleep
with party officials in exchange for a promotion. But sex work in the traditional sense, i.e.
exchanging sex for money, wasn't a practical option due to incredibly strict controls on
housing, income, and leisure activities. Following Kim Il Sung's death in 1994, however,
more international influences started getting across North Korea's borders, which increased
trade options for those working in the oldest profession. So, we've covered how you might meet a potential
partner in North Korea, but once you've won their heart, what comes next? Well, if you're a good communist revolutionary
looking to do your duty to the nation and procreate, you'll obviously want to get married. In some ways, North Korean weddings are similar
to most South Korean weddings: the bride and groom participate in a ceremony known as a
kunbere, which involves exchanging vows before sipping wine from a gourd offered to them
by the mother of the bride. Both bride and groom, and sometimes other
members of the wedding party, wear traditional hanbok dresses, and the wedding venues will
be decorated with bouquets of flowers. Friends and family attending the ceremony
will bring gifts as well as small monetary donations that go towards the lucky couple's
honeymoon. After the ceremony, the groom's parents will
often toss chestnuts for the bride to catch with her skirt, and the number of chestnuts
she catches is said to represent how many children she'll have. Most of the elements of a traditional Korean
wedding are consistent across both sides of the 38th parallel, but in the North, there
are a few notable deviations. First of all, instead of decorating the tables
with flowers at the reception, it's expected that the newlyweds will take them as offerings
to the closest statue of Kim Il-Sung immediately after the ceremony. This is where they'll usually also pose for
their wedding photos, which isn't compulsory, but most couples end up doing it anyway out
of social pressure. And if you and your fellow revolutionary were
planning on tying the knot on either 15 April or 16 February, you're going to have to reconsider,
because those are the birthdates of Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il, respectively, and it's
forbidden to walk down the aisle on either date. Furthermore, as most people in North Korea
can't afford the cost of preparing a wedding feast, it's commonplace to rent food from
local markets- yes, we said rent- just for the sake of a photo-op. Once the pictures of the wedding party are
taken, the food is returned to whatever vendor it was borrowed from. While you and your spouse may not get food
that you're actually allowed to eat, though, you will get some live chickens. Live chickens are never left out of North
Korean weddings. Instead of a flower girl and a ring bearer,
a North Korean couple walking down the aisle will be accompanied by a hen carrying dates
and flowers in its beak, and a rooster holding a red chilli pepper. As for that honeymoon fund we mentioned earlier,
you're out of luck once more, because a newly married couple in North Korea will still be
expected to come in to work the day after the ceremony. NK News contributor Kim Yoo-sung says in an
Ask A North Korean article that he had never even heard of honeymoons until after he defected
in 2005. For party officials, the wedding day is a
much more lavish affair. As a way to demonstrate their wealth and importance,
the ceremony will be held on a huge scale, with long lines of cars parked outside the
venue. The monetary gifts given by guests to the
wedding will often be in US dollars, another way to show off the couple's power and status. After the special day, what is married life
like for North Korean people? Well, if you find out that you jumped in a
little too soon with your fellow revolutionary, and it's not really working out, you're not
alone. Divorce rates in North Korea are steadily
rising as more and more women are seeking economic independence outside of marriage. Alternatively, if you're a party official
or elite businessman, you could always have an affair. In sharp contrast to the conservative attitudes
held by the majority of North Koreans, high-ranking officials are extremely brazen with their
infidelity, posing for photos with their mistresses, and even bringing them on business trips and
to public events. In the west, we tend to think of people in
North Korea as spending their entire lives in service of the government. Images of life in the DPRK are dominated by
starving workers and brainwashed soldiers, so it's easy to think there's nothing more
to the North Korean experience. But humans are social creatures, no matter
how their governments try to control them, and not even the so-called glorious leader
can stop people from falling in love. They just have to be a little more creative
about how they express it. So, the next time you're sitting at home and
swiping left on your 5th tinder match in a row, spare a thought to all the lovesick people
of North Korea. They want it just as much as you. Now check out “What It Is REALLY Like Living
In North Korea?”, or “Regular Things That Are Illegal In North Korea”.
