Today, we have special
guest host Steve from Asian Boss who is going to sit down 
with 4 North Korean refugees who escaped from the totalitarian 
North and now reside in South Korea. Not only are they going to try
American bbq for the first time, but we’ll also hear 
about their stories from their time living in the North, where only the very privileged
can regularly eat meat. Now, we didn’t want to give 
them anything less than the real deal, so we found a highly qualified
pitmaster in Gus Flores. Gus is originally from Guam and 
runs Sweet Oak in Wonju, South Korea, which is about an hour 
and a half outside of Seoul. He is a classically-trained chef who has learned how to 
barbecue from celebrity pitmasters Harry Soo, Myron Mixon and also the late Konrad
Haskins of the bbq Institute of Texas. If there's anyone on this 
side of the world who could give them a 
taste of real American barbecue, it would be Gus. But don’t just take 
our word for it, 12 Bones from Asheville, 
NC flew over for this video and they had a few nice
things to say as well: Listen, what Gus is doing Would be very successful
in the United States. We heard a lot of good
things about him and he was even 
more than we expected. You can tell he knows 
what he's doing, he's takena lot of time to
learn all the nuances of bbq. He's really passionate,
cares about what he's doing. and the product that 
he's putting out. He's phenomenal. You can just tell that 
he and his wife both are putting their heart into it. I mean, some of the best 
brisket I've ever had. He's the real deal. He's a top-notch guy, 
no question Korea is lucky to have
him, for sure. Since we couldn’t fly them 
out to each region to try all the different
styles of bbq, the next best thing we could
do was to have them try the best sauces from
the most respected regions. So, after doing 
some research, we reached out to 
several places and asked them to come 
on board for this project. We have Gates from
Kansas City, Missouri Rudy’s from Texas LawLers from Alabama And 12 Bones from 
Asheville, North Carolina. Sorry Memphis, we tried our best, 
but no one was interested. Now, let's get to the food.
